i am interested in creating a web tool to predict the absolute risk of in-hospital death from a published risk model of covid-19 patients.   is it possible to estimate the intercept from the significant, multivariable model coefficients published table 3 at http://doi.org/10.1016/s0140-6736 20 30566-3    answer no, for a few reasons. the most relevant is that, even if you could numerically determine the value of the intercept term in the model, you would not be able to tell what conditions are represented by the intercept term of the model fit by the researchers  unless they provided some very specific details about their methods, e.g.,  did they center their predictors , etc. .  the way these models are defined, you need to know what the  reference  point of each coefficient is. by convention the reference point for continuous variables is often zero, but the choice of reference is completely arbitrary for categorical variables  though it does appear to be stated in the article .  on a more conceptual note, models like this one are often limited in their ability to predict accurate  class probabilities  because their goal is to explain relationships between predictors, or to describe relative risk-reducing or risk-increasing relationships among the predictors in the model. often these models use only a limited number of variables to arrive at a parsimonious model, which tries to keep multicollinearity low, so that the individual effects of predictors are easier to interpret.   another way of looking at it is this: the model may have been designed to address research questions such as:  what is the relative importance of age with respect to the risk of an in-hospital death after controlling for other demographic factors  . even if the model does this very well, it may be very bad at answering fundamentally different questions, such as  what is the probability that a female will experience an in-hospital death   	
sorry for my lack of understanding, why now, when people been eating bats for centuries  if bats are simply a vector, where does that virus come from   answer bats are reservoirs of many important human pathogens, some are emerging infections  e.g., 2019-ncov, the coronavirus in the news recently , and some are not  e.g., rabies .   contact between humans and bats is certainly not a new phenomena, but there is more required for an emerging infection than a reservoir and a new host. there must be some bridge that allows a virus to cross a previously effective species barrier. for sars, there was an intervening amplifying host, the palm civet. we have now had long enough to study the molecular biology, so this is now quite well described:    once sars-cov had jumped from bats to civets, it underwent further mutations in civets. the first k479n mutation allowed sars-cov to jump from civets to humans and the second s487t mutation allowed sars-cov to transmit from human to human, leading to the severe sars outbreak in 2002-2003.   it may be useful to understand that, as they are rna viruses, coronaviridae have a high error rate, increasing the rate of mutation. additionally, making a species jump may allow for novel recombination. 	
i live in iran and i have bought this qatar airways flight from tehran  iran  to vienna for february 29. as far as i know, to this moment the flight is not cancelled for health concerns regarding coronavirus. although i do not know of any way to make sure about that. so i might have to go to airport and see what is going on.   and i do not want to cancel the flight, since i should be there in vienna for my job starting march 1.  but, in case the flight is not cancelled by the airline, i do not know what is going to happen to me at the airports. some people say that they might put me in quarantine at qatar airport or at vienna airport, maybe for 14 days.   has anyone have any view or experience regarding such conditions  i am kind of panicked and overwhelmed by thoughts and concerns.   answer the first thing you should do is contact your new employer. they may have procedures in place for any people coming for affected zones  china, northern italy, iran...  to be isolated from other staff and/or the public.  it is difficult to guess what measures will be taken by the various authorities in iran, qatar and austria regarding quarantine and isolation, or even outright travel bans, as this can change by the hour.  qatar airways have already cancelled 2 out of 3 of the flights from tehran to doha these last few days, and in the upcoming days.  even if there are no bans or quarantines, and even taking into account switching to a larger plane and cancellations/rebookings, squeezing passengers booked on 3 different flights on a single probably means severe overbooking. be prepared to be bumped off the flight if there are qatari citizens or residents and/or premium passengers that need a seat on that plane.  the remaining flight on saturday has been rescheduled to over an hour earlier. add to that there will probably be lots of additional checks before boarding, and the fact that there will be overbooking, and you should be at the airport a lot earlier that you would normally have, probably before midnight. you want to be the first in the queue. if online/mobile check-in is possible, do it as soon as it opens. you want your boarding pass to show  seq 001 .  i suppose the rescheduling is to account for additional checks on arrival  as well as thorough disinfection of the aircraft after the flight  in order not to have issues with short connections.  current qatar airways procedures for flights from iran:    in line with various global and local health warnings, all incoming passengers from iran and south korea whose final destination is doha and are showing no symptoms of the novel coronavirus will be asked to stay in home isolation or a quarantine facility for 14 days.    passengers arriving from those countries who are showing symptoms will be transferred to the communicable disease centre at the hamad medical corporation.   so if you do not show any symptoms and are only in transit, you should have no issue boarding the flight to vienna, unless austria implements bans or quarantines by then.  good luck  	
do previous immunizations, such as the flu shot, help protect against covid-19  answer while there have been suggestions that a regular flu shot can help protect individuals against covid-19, bogoch said that is not true.   they do not protect against this particular infection. they do not protect against covid-19,  he said.  however, bogoch stressed that vaccinations such as the flu shot are still extremely important for optimizing health.   we should be up to date on all our routine vaccinations, our pneumonia vaccines, our flu vaccines, our regular vaccines, so that we can ensure that our health is optimized in case we come down with an infection,  he said.	
governments are imposing confinement measures on their populations, trusting that if there is no more transmission the virus will die out. but since this coronavirus appeared a first time, what could prevent it from reappearing any number of times    answer frame challenge answer: you are jumping to the conclusion that they really hope the virus will  die out . but it is more likely they adopted those measures to slow its progression to a manageable degree. see e.g. this conceptual image from ecdc    even if there are new outbreaks of covid-19 in the future, when they happen is not irrelevant, as we could be much better prepared given the current/ongoing research on both  antiviral  treatments and possibly a vaccine as well.  regarding the  meat  of the question, it is a matter of probabilities, not certainties. it was and is generally assumed that other  bat etc.  coronaviruses will jump hosts to humans in the future.   besides sars, another  much  lesser known cross-species jump actually occurred in china in 2016 with sads-cov, which killed thousands of pig let s, but was not infectious to humans. annoyingly enough for the chinese pig farmers, sads-cov re-emerged in early 2019 despite the fact that there were no cases reported between may 2017 and january 2019. 	
is there a country that is really handled this well  answer governments worldwide have made major mistakes in trying to contain the outbreak. but as the virus spreads, south korea, singapore and china have been more effective than others at bringing it under control. south korea has aggressively monitored infections, such as by  checking the body temperatures  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/25/world/asia/daegu-south-korea- coronavirus.html  of all incoming and outgoing passengers at train stations and other places. officials operate drive-through testing centers and send out mobile phone alerts to citizens when new cases are reported in their districts. singapore, which has focused on early diagnosis, isolation and contact tracing, has also seen its rate of new cases drop. in china, new reported infections were cut to just 24 in a recent headcount  from more than 3,500 a day  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/health/coronavirus-pandemic-who.html  in late january. in addition to strict travel limitations, chinese people are required to wear masks outdoors and have their temperatures checked at the doors of office buildings, stores, restaurants, hotels, apartments and public transit stations.	
in this link, in the section how long is it between when a person is exposed to the virus and when they start showing symptoms  mentions    recently published research found that on average, the time from exposure to symptom onset  known as the incubation period  is about five to six days. however, studies have shown that symptoms could appear as soon as three days after exposure to as long as 13 days later.    i have seen this other link where we can see that the incubation could vary from 0 to 27 days.  now here mentions how long it last if you have got it, which says its 22 days.    if the covid-19 goes after 22 days, then could be possible that one gets it and showing no symptoms at all, not even feeling bad at all, the whole time on the covid-19 process    if yes, is there a way to know that you already had it   thanks in advance.   answer yes, it is possible to have no symptoms and be infected, various sources, e. g. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32179137.  as for testing after  clearing the infection , this would be what a serological scarring test would look for, e. g.:    http://www.statnews.com/2020/03/27/serological-tests-reveal-immune-coronavirus/ http://www.contagionlive.com/news/florian-krammer-phd-discusses-new-coronavirus-serological-assay.  	
i keep finding sites that list or map countries with coronavirus. i would like the inverse - a list of currently covid-19 free countries to travel to without the virus.  answer please move countries to the second list below as they confirm infections, with a link to an official source. the arcgis dashboard is good enough to be considered official.  countries / territories with zero reported infections   comoros kiribati lesotho marshall islands micronesia nauru north korea palau samoa solomon islands tajikistan tonga turkmenistan tuvalu vanuatu   countries with reported infections   afghanistan  evidence  albania  evidence  algeria  evidence  andorra  evidence  angola  evidence  antigua and barbuda  evidence  argentina  evidence  armenia  evidence  azerbaijan  evidence  australia  evidence  austria  evidence  bahamas  evidence  bahrain  evidence  barbados  evidence  belarus  evidence  belgium  evidence  belize  evidence  benin  evidence  bangladesh  evidence  bhutan  evidence  bolivia  evidence  bosnia and herzegovina  evidence  botswana  evidence  brazil  evidence  brunei  evidence  bulgaria  evidence  burkina faso  evidence  burundi  evidence  cabo verde  evidence  cambodia  evidence  cameroon  evidence  canada  evidence  central african republic  car   evidence  chad  evidence  chile  evidence  china  evidence  colombia  evidence  congo, democratic republic of the  evidence  costa rica  evidence  cote d ivoire  evidence  croatia  evidence  cuba  evidence  cyprus  evidence  czechia  evidence  denmark  evidence  djibouti  evidence  dominica  evidence  dominican republic  evidence  east timor  evidence  ecuador  evidence  egypt  evidence  el salvador  evidence  equatorial guinea  evidence  eritrea  evidence  estonia  evidence  eswatini  formerly swaziland   evidence  ethiopia  evidence  fiji  evidence  finland  evidence  france  evidence  gabon  evidence  gambia  evidence  georgia  evidence  germany  evidence  ghana  evidence  greece  evidence  grenada  evidence  guatemala  evidence  guinea  evidence  guinea-bissau  evidence  guyana  evidence  haiti  evidence  honduras  evidence  hungary  evidence  iceland  evidence  india  evidence  indonesia  evidence  iran  evidence  iraq  evidence  ireland  evidence  israel  evidence  italy  evidence  jamaica  evidence  japan  evidence  jordan  evidence  kazakhstan  evidence  kenya  evidence  kosovo  evidence  kuwait  evidence  kyrgyzstan  evidence  laos  evidence  latvia  evidence  lebanon  evidence  liberia  evidence  libya  evidence  liechtenstein  evidence  lithuania  evidence  luxembourg  evidence  madagascar  evidence  malaysia  evidence  malawi  evidence  mali  evidence  maldives  evidence  malta  evidence  mauritania  evidence  mauritius  evidence  mexico  evidence  moldova  evidence  monaco  evidence  mongolia  evidence  montenegro  evidence  morocco  evidence  mozambique  evidence  myanmar  formerly burma   evidence  namibia  evidence  nepal  evidence  netherlands, the  evidence  new zealand  evidence  nicaragua  evidence  niger  evidence  nigeria  evidence  north macedonia  formerly macedonia   evidence  norway  evidence  oman  evidence  pakistan  evidence  palestine  evidence  panama  evidence  paraguay  evidence  papua new guinea  evidence  peru  evidence  philippines  evidence  poland  evidence  portugal  evidence  qatar  evidence  romania  evidence  russia  evidence  rwanda  evidence  saint kitts and nevis  evidence  saint lucia  evidence  saint vincent and the grenadines  evidence  sao tome and principe  evidence  san marino  evidence  saudi arabia  evidence  senegal  evidence  serbia  evidence  seychelles  evidence  sierra leone  evidence  singapore  evidence  slovakia  evidence  slovenia  evidence  somalia  evidence  south africa  evidence  south korea  evidence  south sudan  evidence  spain  evidence  sri lanka  evidence  sudan  evidence  suriname  evidence  sweden  evidence  switzerland  evidence  syria  evidence  taiwan  evidence  tanzania  evidence  thailand  evidence  togo  evidence  trinidad and tobago  evidence  tunisia  evidence  turkey  evidence  uganda  evidence  ukraine  evidence  united arab emirates  uae   evidence  united kingdom  uk   evidence  united states of america  usa   evidence  uruguay  evidence  uzbekistan  evidence  vatican city  holy see   evidence  venezuela  evidence  vietnam  evidence  yemen  evidence  zambia  evidence  zimbabwe  evidence   	
i am a college student, will i get anything  answer    if you are listed as a dependent on a tax return, then no. students under age 24 are often dependents in the eyes of the taxing authorities if a parent pays for at least half of their expenses.	
can a person test negative and later test positive for covid-19  answer using the cdc-developed diagnostic test, a negative result means that the virus that causes covid-19 was not found in the person is sample. in the early stages of infection, it is possible the virus will not be detected. for covid-19, a negative test result for a sample collected while a person has symptoms likely means that the covid-19 virus is not causing their current illness.	
if people can spread the virus without showing any symptoms, how can i tell who is infected and who is not  answer you can not, said dr. james phillips, chief of disaster and operational medicine at george washington university hospital.   we are so far behind on testing, there is only one way we can be certain not to transmit the virus and be certain not to get it ourselves: we need to start treating every person as though they have this,   phillips said.    and everyone needs to treat us like we have it, and socially distance ourselves in that manner. because until we have  enough  testing, we do not know who has this. and we are not sure when they start spreading it.    that is why it is so critical to avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet away from others, wash or disinfect your hands, and stop touching your face.	
will petrol pumps work  answer will petrol pumps work  yes. petrol pumps, lpg/oil agencies will continue to function.	
from the outside it appears that the coronavirus  covid-19  outbreak has caught the usa off guard and that it is been handled quite poorly to date. so my assumption is that this would have a negative effect on what people think about donald trump  however, it appears his popularity does not seem to follow a typical set of expectations, so i would like a more objective assessment of how it is affected the public perception of him.   answer trump has never had better ratings - but that is not the whole story.  this analysis from the cbc shows a fuller picture.    donald trump has the highest approval ratings since the first few weeks of his presidency.   a 47  approval rating  however he has also had the lowest approval ratings of any president on average, never once having had an approval rate of more than 50 , and averaging around 43 . the last few weeks is the first time since march 2017 his approval has been higher than his disapproval.  also all leaders have been polling better in this crisis, and most have been polling much higher than trump . in a fox news poll:    dr. anthony fauci, director of the national institutes of health  local officials got 75 per cent  state governments 74 per cent  vice-president mike pence 55 per cent  and trump 51 per cent.    the federal and provincial governments in canada are getting high marks for their handling of the crisis, with approval ratings mainly in the 60s...france is unpopular president, emmanuel macron, has gotten a bounce, with polls showing him gaining as much as 14 per cent during the crisis. italy is governing party is polling better, too.   a high approval in a crisis does not mean re-election.    take george h.w. bush, who had an approval rating around 90 per cent after winning the first gulf war in 1991 but lost re-election the following year. a soft economy quickly pulled his gallup approval down as low as 29 per cent.  	
i am trying to create copper  ii  acetate crystals, but in these times of coronavirus it is difficult to come by hydrogen peroxide. i could be patient, but i am not, so i am trying to make it electrochemically. i have 5  vinegar and lots of copper scrap, and an adjustable power supply. unfortunately i can not barely get any current going, so i have thought of adding salt, regular nacl. i am curious what effect this will have on the final outcome though. balancing equations is something i struggle with, but i would really like to learn the chemistry here. will the salt interfere with or alter the growth of the copper acetate crystals  ultimately i am trying to make calcium copper acetate crystals, i have already made the calcium acetate.  answer to prepare copper acetate absence h2o2, employ a known method from hydrometallurgy to process copper ore employing aqueous ammonia, air  a source of oxygen  and a small amount of salt  acting as an electrolyte for this, in part, spontaneous electrochemical reaction detailed below . this results in tetra-ammine copper hydroxide. the latter exists only in solution and upon evaporation yields cuo  and possibly some cu2o also, see this old patent . add an acid of choice  like vinegar, a source of acetate  to convert cuo into copper acetate.   related copper chemistry with ammonia and oxygen:  cited half-reactions:    ce 1/2 o2   h2o   2 e- - gt  2 oh-    cathodic reduction of o2 at surface of the copper   and, at the copper anode, the formation of the complex:    ce cu   4 nh3   2 h2o - gt   cu nh3 4 h2o 2  2     2 e-    anodic dissolution of cu by a complexing agent   with an overall reaction:    ce cu   4 nh3   1/2 o2   3 h2o - gt   cu nh3 4 h2o 2  2     2 oh-    also, some interesting cited standard chemical reactions, where copper oscillates between cuprous and cupric states as noted by the source below:    ce 2 cu   4 nh3   1/2 o2   h2o - gt  2  cu nh3 2 oh      ce 2 cu nh3 2 oh   4 nh3  aq    1/2 o2   h2o - gt  2  cu nh3 4  oh 2      ce cu    cu nh3 4  oh 2  lt -- gt  2  cu nh3 2 oh    reference:  kinetics and mechanism of copper dissolution in aqueous ammonia  and a related work detailing reactions:  copper dissolution in ammonia solutions: identification of the mechanism at low overpotentials , which is also a fully available pdf.  some alternate preparations would be to follow paths to copper patina  see this site, which discusses three paths for the home chemists which includes an embodiment of the ammonia prep, and, with the addition of vinegar, would convert the basic copper carbonate to copper acetate. 	
does the covid-19 metro manila curfew from 2020-03-15 to 2020-04-14  8pm to 5am  prevent travelers from going to the airport  ninoy aquino international airport, mnl  during the curfew hours     here are the unhelpful webpages i found so far:  http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1241807/curfew-hours-for-metro-manila-lockdown-malls-establishments-to-be-shuttered/amp:    going out to buy food is considered an essential purpose, garcia said.    garcia said they are also mulling to recommend bars, establishments and other related entertainment shops to shut down during the 30-day quarantine which runs from march 15 to april 14.   http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/metro/729647/metro-manila-to-have-curfew-from-8-p-m-5-a-m-beginning-march-15/story/ amp:    in press conference, mmda general manager jojo garcia announced on saturday that all the mayors in metro manila agreed to issue a resolution to impose a curfew from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m., starting march 15 until april 14.    garcia, however, clarified that those covered by the curfew are non-essential activities such as   yung mga gumigimik lang, kung saan-saan nagpupunta, nakikibarkada, nakiki-party. lahat  yan bawal na muna.    mnl is airport phone number  63 02 877 1109 is useless  sounds like an automated ad  i do not get it. .    i have crossposted the question at:   http://qr.ae/pnnpxl http://redd.it/fifm2z   answer the covid-19 metro manila curfew from 2020-03-15 to 2020-04-14  8pm to 5am  does not prevent travelers from going to the airport  ninoy aquino international airport, mnl  during the curfew hours.  however, it has been announced on 2020-03-16 evening a total lockdown, which is supposed to 1  lead to the cancellation of all outbound international flights departing mnl starting in around 72 hours. 2  might reduce/remove all taxi traffic  i am not sure, i have heard conflicting information from people who are supposed to know  e.g., mnl information counter . it is a mess, i have given up trying to understand  i think nobody does , and announcements, including presidential addresses, code-mix three languages  english, filipino, and some dialect . 	
when should i get tested  answer your doctor will tell you if you need to get tested.	
am i at risk if i go to a funeral or visitation service for someone who died of covid-19  answer there is currently no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with the body of someone who died of covid-19.	
how do i manage any risks while grocery shopping  answer with new research that suggests the new coronavirus can live on surfaces for hours or days, the prospect of going grocery shopping can seem daunting. but you can manage the risk. first of all, the viability of the virus goes down over time and it is sensitive to temperature - so it dies off more quickly in room temperature than it does in the cold. second, when you go to a grocery store, people are not generally touching all the cans on the shelf -- although there tends to be more handling of individual items in the produce section. among the things you can do to protect yourself and others are: ko says it helps to understand the differing levels of risk in different situations. coming into close contact with a person who is infected with coronavirus carries greater risk than touching a shopping cart that might have been touched by an infected person hours or days earlier. when it comes to disinfecting things, it makes sense to focus on high-touch surfaces. ko says you should worry more about disinfecting bathroom doorknobs and faucets at home than about a can of tomato soup from the supermarket.  there is never anything that has zero risk,  ko says,  but the risk is so much lower than  surfaces  that are more frequently touched. 	
due to covid 19, wwe is hosting their shows with no audience. how does wwe earn money with an empty audience   answer businessinsider.com reported on this in an article back in 2015. the statistics were culled from major north american sports teams.    the amount of revenue generated by major north american sports team from the selling of media rights  tv, radio, internet, etc.  is projected to surpass the amount of revenue generated from ticket sales in 2018, according to a pricewaterhousecoopers report  via sports business daily . as a result, television ratings have now become the driving force behind sports, even bigger than actually bringing fans to the games. nbsp  nbsp source: why tv ratings in sports are more important than attendance - nov 17, 2015   and again three years later.    media rights -- or the fees paid to show sports on tv, the internet, and other distribution channels -- will remain the largest and fastest-growing bucket of sports revenues in north america, according to pwc is sports outlook. nbsp  nbsp source: media rights will continue to propel sports revenue - nov 28, 2018   although the wwe should probably be considered a secondary market, they have long embraced home pay-per-view and licenced satellite broadcast to bars and other public venues for  championship  events. cable sports networks broadcast matches of lesser importance on a regular basis and these would be subject to contractual fees as well. 	
what is an essential service  who decides that  answer in places where officials have called for workplaces to be shuttered, there are exemptions for  essential  services and businesses. those institutions can remain open for customers and have workers onsite. in the united states there are    http://www.cisa.gov/identifying-critical- infrastructure-during-covid-19  federal guidelines  http://www.cisa.gov/identifying-critical-infrastructure-during- covid-19  for what is considered an essential service, but decisions are often made at the state level. for example, here are some lists of essential services in    http://www.apple.com  new york  http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-issues-guidance- essential-services-under-new-york-state-pause-executive-order ,    http://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-essential- services  massachusetts  http://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-essential- services ,    http://covid19.ca.gov/stay-home-except-for-essential- needs/  california  http://covid19.ca.gov/stay-home-except-for-essential- needs/  and    http://www2.illinois.gov/sites/coronavirus/faq/pages/stay-at- home- faqs.aspx qst7  illinois  http://www2.illinois.gov/sites/coronavirus/faq/pages/stay- at-home-faqs.aspx qst7 . all four states consider pharmacies, gas stations, laundromats and groceries to be essential, and all of them say restaurants can stay open for take-out and delivery orders. typically, essential services also include utilities, telecommunications and transportation providers  animal shelters and veterinary services  manufacturers and distributors of basic goods  and child care for those who work in essential services.	
if you watch just the first episodes, it is a ordinary mahou shoujo for tween girls anime...  but the plot thickens into something too heavy for young girls to digest  imo  soon enough.    the whole dismemberment and viewing themselves as living sacrifices for their god, not to mention the sisterly guilt trip.   with that in mind, where does it fall   answer the light novel washio sumi wa yusha de aru, which is set in the same universe 2 years prior and is the prequel of the anime, targets the seinen demographic. the seinen demographic includes males from 17 years of age and above. it can be safe to assume that the anime yuki yuna wa yusha de aru is for the same demographic as the light novel.  the show is also broadcast at late night on the primary channel mbs and other channels, at as early as 22:00 and as late as 03:00 late night. the late night showing of the anime implies that it is at least for young adults and not for tween girls as the introduction might have suggests.   sources:   wikipedia - yuki yuna wa yusha de aru: washio sumi wa yusha de aru is target demographic seinen definition: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/seinen manga tv schedule: http://live.nicovideo.jp/watch/lv195090725  	
can disposable medical face masks be sterilized and reused  answer no. disposable medical face masks are intended for a single use only. after use they should be removed using appropriate techniques  i.e. do no touch the front, remove by pulling the elastic ear straps or laces from behind  and disposed of immediately in an infectious waste bin with a lid, followed by hand hygiene. for more information on using masks in the context of the ncov outbreak, click here.	
nz, aus and other countries are now requiring people to self-isolate for 14 days to ensure they do not have covid-19. there can be some rather strict ramifications if you fail to adhere to this.  what i wondered after seeing a question on fb  disclaimer: i run the beatthatflight facebook page  - how does one self isolate as a backpacker/traveller who is planning on staying in hostel dorms    answer go home if you can   if you are travelling in your country of residence, go home and self-isolate there. if travel restrictions make this impossible, contact the relevant authorities for advise. usually there are some exemptions for essential travel, and travelling from a potentially crowded hostel to your home may well count as valid travel.  if you are travelling in another country than your country of residence, contact your embassy. many embassies are attempting to repatriate their citizens. chances are your embassy is already working on trying to reach you if they know how to contact you  i received an email from my government already, but i have my home and job here and the situation in my mother country is no better than here, so it makes no sense for me to repatriate .  now is not the time to travel for non-essential purposes. 	
senator burr is currently being accused of using insider information to sell his stock in advance of the coronavirus epidemic:    burr had been receiving daily coronavirus updates from the intelligence community in his role as committee chairman, per a feb. 27 report by reuters. after writing a feb. 7 fox news op-ed that said the u.s. is  better prepared than ever before  to face public health threats such as covid-19, he sold between  628,000 and  1.72 million in stocks on feb. 13, propublica reported.   but what non-public information did burr receive  china being put into lockdown was public information and was discussed by the media around the world. the first american coronavirus patient was diagnosed on january 19th in washington and this was likewise public information. the virus spreading to italy and other european countries was in the news in late january as well.  so what exactly did senator burr do wrong  what information could he have possibly obtained that was not in the news by early-mid february   answer the information that us intelligence services warned about a likely pandemic.  it is one thing to know that there was one case in washington or a lockdown in china, but another to know if an informed source such as us intelligence services consider it a threat.  this politico article goes into a bit more depths about this and the difficulty in actually prosecuting cases like this.  regarding what he did  wrong , there is also the issue of him not speaking out about trumps misleading statements downplaying the crisis when he seemingly knew better. 	
what is a coronavirus  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19.	
how are check amounts impacted if someone has a child in 2020    answer tax experts said that since advanced payment amounts are based on taxpayers  2018 or 2019 returns, people who have children in 2020 would receive payments this year that do not take into account the new children. however, the rebates are credits against 2020 taxes, so new parents will get the additional credit reflecting their children when they file their 2020 tax returns next year.	
nowadays we are hearing angela merkel with a specialist and a doctor in united states claiming covid-19 could infect betweeen 50-70  of the population. according to this cdc faq flu infects between 3  to 15  of people each year. so i was wondering if recently we got any disease with such large contagious rate as claimed by merkel, and yesterday in argentine television a doctor said they made a research in argentina and they got to the conclusion that back in 2009 influenza a h1n1 infected 60  of the argentine population but many of them didnt develop symptoms. is this possible   is it possible that h1n1 infected 60  of the population back in 2009 in a country  is there any other data which could back this up   answer your question is related with mine:  we will never know how many individuals have been infected, we can only count the cases that have been diagnosed and these are those who are died or have been hospitalized or have visited the doctor.  so it could be possible that 80   of a population is infected but only 50  are diagnosed and as we had also a medial hype in 2009 it is really surprising that the spread trend of h1n1 2009 in argentina was so low:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2009 flu pandemic by country  i do not know where from merkel has her information ... 	
my primary income is from rentals. if my tenants are unable to pay their rent, what kind of relief is available to me  answer trump in march signed  the largest economic stimuluspackage  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/03/27/coronavirus-house-set-pass-stimulus-package-includes-checks/2923953001/  in u.s. history.the  stimulus provides forbearance on mortgagepayments  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2020/03/31/coronavirus-what-happens-if-you-cant-pay-rent-due-pandemic/5099013002/  for up to a year butjust for federally-backed loans. some states and banks are also issuing relieffor other types of mortgages. once forbearance ends, borrowers would have towork out a repayment plan or loan modification with the mortgage servicer, thenational housing law project says.still, several states are granting moratoriums to renters but not owners,potentially forcing owners to pay their mortgage, utilities, taxes and othercosts even though they have less rental income.	
from knowyourmeme:  spoilers     on the day before the airing of the final episode of school days in japan, a 16 year old girl killed her father with an axe in kyoto. due to an extremely similar scene present in the episode and to avoid relation to the axe murder, tv kanagawa replaced it with a half hour of unrelated scenery with  air on a g string  playing in the background. among the shock and rage expressed among fans, a 4chan user commented  nice boat , referring to the norwegian ferry shown in the replacement footage. immediately the phrase became a meme, however is far more popular in japan than in english speaking countries.     the part with the boat is easily viewable on youtube and other sites, but i have not been able to find the full episode.  is the episode bundled together with any merchandise or available legally online to stream/download   answer the full 28-minute version of nice boat is apparently available on nicovideo  you will need to make an account or use a redirector like nicoviewer . i did not see the original nice boat back when it aired, so i can not say whether it is the real deal, but it certainly looks right to me. the nice boat itself makes its first appearance at 04:36.   i would be surprised if nice boat were ever included in a home video release of school days, though. at minimum, it is not included in the french dvd boxset or in the 2013 japanese blu-ray boxset. 	
extended family  2 adults, 2 kids  is currently stuck in new zealand because of the coronavirus. their original return flight was cancelled. they are german citizens.  they now say they do not have any possibility to leave the country since all countries where a transfer would have to occur would not let them in, not even airside transfer  is this true   if not, what would prevent them from buying an akl-mel-doh-fra ticket  this seems to be the only possible and viable option that prevents immigration along the route or landing in another schengen country before. also, qatar seems to be the only airline that is still flying from that area and directly into frankfurt.  or are the special return flights announced by the german government their only chance to come home   answer for your proposed routing, timatic currently says:      transit - australia  au       passengers are not allowed to transit or enter australia.   passengers departing from new zealand with a confirmed onward ticket on the same calendar day to return home are allowed to transit through australia. they must remain airside and must have not been in china  people is rep. , iran, italy or korea  rep.  in the past 14 days.         ...     visa required, except for nationals of germany transiting through brisbane  bne , darwin  drw  or melbourne  mel  with a confirmed onward ticket for a flight to a third country within 8 hours. they must stay in the international transit area of the airport and have documents required for the next destination.       transit - qatar  qa       twov  transit without visa :  visa required, except for passengers with a confirmed onward ticket for a flight to a third country within 24 hours. they must stay in the international transit area of the airport and have documents required for the next destination.    so it should be possible if they can book that itinerary as a single ticket  so that luggage is checked through .  i can not find this itinerary, however i see akl-doh-fra on qatar airways on sunday. 	
when is the virus most contagious  answer when is the virus most contagious  the average time from exposure to developing symptoms is five to six days, but can be up to two weeks. tests have found high amounts of virus in the throats and noses of people a couple days before they show symptoms. signs of virus also have been found in stool weeks after patients recover, but that does not mean it is capable of causing illness, scientists warn.  the virus can be degraded,  said robert webster, a st. jude children is research center virus expert.  it is not necessarily infectious virus at all. 	
i am wondering if ice has the legal authority to immediately arrest illegal immigrants after they have received medical care at u.s. hospitals for covid-19. i am referring to people who voluntarily came into u.s. hospitals to receive this medical treatment.   moreover, if ice does have the legal authority to do this, do the mayors of sanctuary cities currently have a legal right to intervene to stop ice from arresting these particular illegal immigrants  i am thinking in particular about the mayors of cities throughout the state of california.  answer ice has a degree of authority to deport without court hearing, via an expedited process. the legal framework for such deportations are explained here, and rely on 8 usc 1225. the secretary of dhs has authority to establish rules, and has recently done so here. the current regulations pertaining to expedited removal are at 8 cfr 253.3. there is no exemption for people being medically treated, for covid-19 or any other reason, but  parole  is available  at the discretion of the attorney general  to  parole  an immigrant if it is  is required to meet a medical emergency . thus an illegal immigrant in the icu might be exempt from immediate deportation, but that is at the discretion of the ag. state and local officials do not have the authority to interfere in the enforcement of federal law, even if the state or municipality has declared itself a  sanctuary . the criminal penalties for interference are spelled out here  no law compells cooperation, the law simply prohibits forcible interference. 	
how do i practice physical distancing  answer if you have been in contact with a person with a covid-19 infection while they were ill, you need to isolate yourself for 14 days after you last saw that person. in general, stay home as much as you can. if you have to go out, from midnight monday, march 30, you cannot see more than one other person. this applies to both private and public gatherings and indoor and outdoor spaces. for example, if you go to the park, you can only go with one person. the restrictions do not apply within your household - if you live in a sharehouse of four, you can still see your housemates. you are also allowed to visit family members in other houses, including your partner. announcing this restriction, the prime minister said acceptable reasons to leave the house include:shopping for what you needfor medical care or compassionate needs  e.g. caring for someone else to exercise  provided no more than two people in a group for work and education  if you cannot work or learn remotely  the general aim of physical distancing rules is to avoid situations where you may come in close contact with others  face-to-face contact closer than one metre for more than 15 minutes or being in the same closed space for two hours . avoid shaking hands, crowds of people, and busy indoor and outdoor spaces.	
i have a question about the novel coronavirus and swine flu.   how do the death rates compare between the two diseases  how do the transmissions and rate of transmission compare  was a vaccine developed quicker for swine flu    i ask because i do not recall this level of global disruption during the swine flu outbreak.  answer  swine flu  is an obsolete name. the official name for the virus that was briefly called  swine flu  is  h1n1pdm09 .   h1n1pdm09 has a mortality rate of around 0.01-0.1 . that is roughly 10- to 20-fold lower than covid-19. its r0 was estimated at between 1 and 2, which is roughly half the estimates for sars-cov-2  the virus responsible for covid-19 .   a vaccine for h1n1pdm09 was available in the fall of 2010. it was possible to make it that quickly because it is just another influenza strain, and the normal techniques for for vaccines against influenza strains worked fine.   most importantly, h1n1pdm09 never went away. it is still one of the main influenza strains circulating today, and if you were vaccinated for influenza since 2010 you received a vaccine against it.    cdc info here: 2009 h1n1 pandemic  h1n1pdm09 virus  who info here: evolution of a pandemic: a h1n1  2009, april 2009 - august 2010, 2nd edition  	
last night i was drying my cat with a towel after shenanigans in the rain and she sneezed    questions   can cats/dogs/hamsters or other pets catch the cold   how quickly do they recover    answer yes they can. the viruses that cause a cold include rhinoviruses  up to 80  , coronaviruses and influenza  together accounting for much of the remaining 20   and a small percentage of adenoviruses. when discussing cross species transfer, influenza is the most important to discuss as it is a fairly common cause of the  common cold .   influenza a has humans, pigs, bird and horses as its host. different influenza strains have different hosts. influenza can recombine if two strains infect the same host  antigenic shift  and also mutate  antigenic drift . with a combination of these influenza can and has numerous times crossed the species barrier which has caused the major flu pandemics as well as swine and avian flu. it is this reservoir that makes these viruses so hard to eradicate. when we are the only host such as in polio virus, it is a lot easier. pigs do not adhere to national flu guidelines.   comparing recovery times, all mammals are roughly similar although due to our slightly more evolved immune system as well as social factors of knowing what to do when we are ill we recovery very slightly earlier. 	
 not sure if this is the right se for this question. i am asking this here, because i am looking for a biological answer, if one exists.   this  potentially very naive  question is inspired by this news article: bats for sale at indonesia is wildlife market despite virus warning    bats, rats and snakes are still being sold at an indonesian market known for its wildlife offerings, despite a government request to take them off the menu over fears of a link to the deadly coronavirus.   why would the government request to take the meat of these animals off the market  even if they are linked to the coronavirus, the virus presumably can be killed by cooking the meat prior to consumption. after all, protein denatures well before 100 degrees celsius, and once it denatures the organism should die. conceivably the virus could affect the handlers of these animals prior to their being cooked, but not the consumers.  some paragraphs later in the article illustrate my confusion:    restaurateur lince rengkuan -- who serves bats including their heads and wings stewed in coconut milk and spices -- says the secret is preparation.     if you do not cook the bat well then of course it can be dangerous,  she said.     we cook it thoroughly and so far the number of customers has not gone down at all.    which is effectively what i have been thinking, but:     we are also urging people not to consume meat from animals suspected to be carriers of a fatal disease,  said ruddy lengkong, head of the area is government trade and industry agency.   how are these two seemingly-contradictory positions reconciled   answer restaurateur lince rengkuan is correct - once the bat meat is cooked the coronavirus will die, and the meat is safe to consume.  the indonesian government is not imposing restrictions for biological reasons, but for other reasons  these other reasons are out of scope of this se. 	
can covid-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms  answer the main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. the risk of catching covid-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. however, many people with covid-19 experience only mild symptoms. this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. it is therefore possible to catch covid-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill. who is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of covid-19 and will continue to share updated findings.	
this page bleach claims     bleach is more effective at killing germs when diluted than when used  straight out of the bottle.   this other page  spanish  alcohol and bleach are more effective against coronavirus diluted claims the same    disinfectants like bleach and alcohol alter the virus structure and  prevent it from infecting us. their effects will depend in the right  concentration   but this other page, does liquid bleach has to be diluted to be effective as a virus killer   claims     so, all things being equal, undiluted bleach is more effective at  killing stubborn bacteria.   i know, he says bacteria and not virus but,     the data of viruses is a little more straight forward viruses are  simply not cut out to defend against the bleach onslaught  a group of  scientists in new york studied the effects of very dilute  concentrations of bleach on the respiratory syncytial virus  rsv . a  tenfold dilution of bleach, which subsequently mixed with an equal  volume of rsv-containing medium  so in fact a twentyfold dilution   eradicated all of the virus. a 100-fold dilution of bleach killed 100   of the virus half of the time, and decreased the number of live viral  particles by greater than three logs in the other half of the tests.  this was all after five minutes of treatment.    so at least for viruses, you can probably dilute the bleach tenfold  without worrying too much about decreased antimicrobial activity.   personally, i do not find any logic why bleach would be more effective diluted, the opposite makes more sense to me. is there any explanation for this to be so  or it is just a wrong idea   answer the text does not say that more diluted bleach is more effective at killing viruses  or bacteria, or yeast, for that matter .   i am quoting:  ...a tenfold dilution of bleach, which subsequently mixed with an equal volume of rsv-containing medium  so in fact a twentyfold dilution  eradicated all of the virus. a 100-fold dilution of bleach killed 100  of the virus half of the time, and decreased the number of live viral particles by greater than three logs in the other half of the tests. this was all after five minutes of treatment...  so a 20-fold dilution kills all virus always  a 100-fold dilution kills 100  of the virus 50  of the time and kills most of them in the other cases.   i think form this we can conclude that more highly concentrated bleach is more deadly to viruses than more diluted bleach.  	
usa banned all flights from eu. my bf already flew athens-zurich-miami, and he returns at the end of march  within the 30 days corona virus ban , again via zurich.  is he is going to be affected by usa is ban, with the data we have as of 12 of march   answer contrary to some statements, flights have not been banned. only some  well, many  people are banned.  as there will be a huge drop in the number of people travelling on those flights, many flights will be cancelled, but at this stage there is no indication that they will stop altogether.  airlines are scrambling to try to adjust their schedules to the demand, to changing bans and regulations, you should monitor the status of the flights, as rebooking may be necessary. 	
what are the symptoms  answer novel coronavirus can cause symptoms that range from mild to severe, including cough, fever and shortness of breath. since the symptoms are similar to those of pneumonia, influenza and the common cold, only a diagnostic test can confirm whether an individual has coronavirus.	
can the virus affect any other part of your body besides your lungs  answer yes. the virus can also affect your nose and throat, your blood, and maybe your stomach and intestines too. in kids, the virus is most likely to affect your nose and throat.	
can one be immune to the new coronavirus   another question is what is the exact definition of  being immune . does it mean that even when the virus enters my system, it cannot multiply   answer it is hypothesized that exposure to and recovery from sars-cov-2  as with other coronaviruses in humans  would generally result in short-term immunity to this strain, but we do not yet have data on this:    however, according to dr stephen gluckman, an infectious diseases physician at penn medicine and the medical director of penn global medicine, who spoke to the outlet, it seems likely that having the disease once results in immunity in most individuals - as is seen with other coronaviruses.      coronaviruses are not new, they have been around for a long, long time and many species - not just humans - get them,  he explained.  so we know a fair amount about coronaviruses in general. for the most part, the feeling is once you have had a specific coronavirus, you are immune. we do not have enough data to say that with this coronavirus, but it is likely.     this means that people who initially recovered are more likely to relapse rather than get reinfected with the virus.     according to one study, people with mild infections can test positive for the virus by throat swabs  for days and even weeks after their illness .    but, that does not mean it is not possible to contract the disease again, especially in those who are immunocompromised.      the immune response to covid-19 is not yet understood,  the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  explains.  patients with mers-cov infection are unlikely to be reinfected shortly after they recover, but it is not yet known whether similar immune protection will be observed for patients with covid-19.     coronavirus: can you get covid-19 twice or does it cause immunity    it is also hypothesized  in humans  that previous exposure to coronaviruses may enable immunity to certain other highly related strains:    these data indicate that challenge immunity to coronaviruses is strong, but highly virus strain-specific.    virus strain specificity of challenge immunity to coronavirus., archives of virology  1989    but these are all examples of adaptive immunity - not innate. 	
on mar 12 2020, us federal reserve injected   1.5t of liquidity into the markets, rather than that amount of money .  on mar 18, cares act came into force and will pay out  2 trillion usd. on apr 8 the federal reserve released minutes from meeting where it took rates to zero because of coronavirus    miller said he expects the fed balance sheet, currently just shy of  6 trillion, to expand to  10 trillion or more.   on apr 9, the federal reserve will print  2.3 trillion usd to buy junk bonds and lend to states in a new wave of stimulus.  my questions   why did congress need the cares act  why did not it just recommend that the federal reserve spend  2t usd, which looks way easier  i know that the federal reserve is autonomous and congress can not order the federal reserve to do anything. similarly, senate democrats block  250 billion in small business relief, accuse mcconnell of a  political stunt  : politics. why did not congress members just recommend the fed spend another  250b,  as you can see from the points above, both sides criticized and haggled before enacting the cares act. but the federal reserve has spent way more than  2.250t  is not this a contradiction  why have not congress members criticized or haggled the federal reserve like democrats and republicans are criticizing each other in congress   does not the cares act prove that the fed is not spending, or has not spent, enough money on the the right people  if the fed was giving money to the right people, then would the us need the cares act     answer broadly speaking, the fed can only keep markets liquid by doing things like buying assets or making loans to banks against assets owned by the banks. that is awesome if you are worried that mortgage-backed securities are tanking in value and the fed can come along and prop up their value until the panic is over. that is a concern today but it was a much bigger concern back in 2008 when the housing bubble burst.   it is useless if your goal is to get money into the hands of people or small businesses that need it to pay rent or pay their mortgages today. if congress wants to get money to those folks, it has to pass legislation to spend the money.  fed spending is also very different from congressional spending because the fed is generally buying  or lending against  assets, it is not generating spending that drives demand. most of the fed is  1.5 t involves going to banks that have some assets and saying  hey, nice assets. we would love to give you a cheap loan if you put those assets up as collateral.  that ensures that banks have plenty of money on hand to be able to lend out and ensures that there is a willing buyer for whatever assets the fed is lending against. eventually, though, banks are going to give the fed back that  1.5 t with a small bit of interest.  	
can you see the coronavirus  does it have color  answer you need a microscope to see it, and the coronavirus is so small that it does not have color. when you see colored pictures of them, that is because scientists have actually added color so you can see the parts of the coronavirus more clearly. listen  a kid is guide to coronavirus  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/podcasts/the-daily/kids- coronavirus.html   a podcast from the daily 	
for example: during the current covid 19 outbreak the reported numbers are number of infections after various measures like social distancing or quarantine have been used - so it does not make much sense to compare it to the r0 if a disease like flu, where similar measures are not used.  is there an objective measurement  something like what are the chances of getting infected in some controlled conditions  answer r0 is the basic reproduction number describing how many cases are expected to be infected by a single case. this value is not a biological constant.    with an r0  reproduction number  estimated at 2.5  based on china , many experts predict that between 20 and 60  of the world population could get infected  which means at least 0.5m deaths .    however, the r0 varies during the course of an epidemic as a result of a series of determinants and interventions   such as containment and mitigation factors, and eventually herd immunity and vaccination.  http://www.isglobal.org/en/coronavirus-lecciones-y-recomendaciones 	
i am a brazilian citizen actually traveling and volunteering in the uk  been here for 5 months .   i came with a normal visa plus the return ticket  in april 21st . right now i am in scotland is highlands  this is relevant because i would have to travel quite a bit to get the flight . i can switch to any flight until december 31st.  my flight back goes through london, lisboa and then brazil. this is troublesome as lisboa border will potentially close. i can think of 3 scenarios:   flight goes well and get home  sounds easier than it will be   flight cancelled and postponed for a date after my visa expires  flight-on-date but i do not take the flight to take care of my health and see how this situation evolves.   the question boils down to:   is there any way to extend my visa or: is it too bad to stay longer and let it expires     i have tried to contact a few governmental entities with no response so far, which is reasonable as they might be overloaded .   disclaimer  as i have said on the bottom of the post, i emailed the embassy. they only replied today and the link they sent points to uk advices for chinese people, and it is completely useless. as i was expecting the flight state is rather uncertain  tap air portugal . you can check the cancelled flights. i would also recommend anyone having a safe chance to go back to do it. this is not the case.   answer many countries are advising their citizens to return home while they still can. you should make plans to leave as soon as possible. contact your airline to arrange new flights. if that proves impossible contact your embassy and ukvi to find out what your options are. rules can be changed at short notice in extreme circumstances. what is not possible today may be perfectly possible tomorrow. do not just let your visa expire.  there is no mechanism to extend a standard visitor visa. you might be able to claim force majeure if you were trapped in the uk and had no alternative but to overstay, but currently you do have viable options to leave. as an aside, hopefully you are already aware that there are restrictions on visitors carrying out volunteering activities, see app3  4    compiled from the comments 	
why do some state is covid-19 case numbers sometimes differ from what is posted on cdc is website  answer cdc is overall case numbers are validated through a confirmation process with jurisdictions. the process used for finding and confirming cases displayed by different places may differ.	
prior to the sars-cov-2 epidemic i was under the impression that viruses fall into two categories:   diseases from which you recover and afterwards become fully immune. when reinfected with a mutated version of the virus, you do get sick again, but it is a milder form.  common cold, influenza  diseases which are impossible to recover from  hiv, hpv , so you do not really gain immunity   are there diseases which fall into a third bucket: you do recover, but can be reinfected immediately with the same strain  note that i am not asking about whether or not this is possible with covid-19 - this question is purely about other diseases that we know of.  answer seasonal coronaviruses come back year after year and we continue to suffer with them    researchers do know that reinfection is an issue with the four seasonal coronaviruses that cause about 10 to 30  of common colds. these coronaviruses seem to be able to sicken people again and again, even though people have been exposed to them since childhood.     almost everybody walking around, if you were to test their blood right now, they would have some levels of antibody to the four different coronaviruses that are known,  says ann falsey of the university of rochester medical center.    after infection with one of these viruses, she says, antibodies are produced but then the levels slowly decline and people become susceptible again.   similarly, the herpes zoster or chicken pox virus you recover from but when your antibody levels drop, it can reappear as shingles.  http://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2020/03/20/819038431/do-you-get-immunity-after-recovering-from-a-case-of-coronavirus  http://www.cdc.gov/shingles/about/transmission.html 	
not an economist by far, just a layman, and that is a layman question.  how is this possible that it is difficult to find mask for the corona virus  i have been several times to 7/11, boots, watson, and other pharmacies, and everytime they did not have it as they ran out. how is it possible that the producers of masks give up on additional earning by not producing more masks, now that it is pretty obvious the demand is going up   the fact that there are not enough masks is my personal experience in bangkok - however, some friends of mine have the same experience in italy, where the corona virus outbreak has reached a scary stage.  generally. i would explain capitalism failure by pointing at government regulations - however in this case i do not see how the government can be involved into mask production.  any idea    answer this is a common problem in many domains. for example, there is massive new demand of airbus planes after the boeing 737 max 8 disaster, and their manufacturing capacity is maxed out.  i am familiar with it from the domain of software development, so i will use that as an example.  suppose some website gets mentioned on reddit and the post happens to hit the first page. it gets the  reddit hug of death   the swarm of reddit users overwhelm the website is servers, and it becomes unavailable . you could ask the same question:    how is it possible that the producers of  this site  give up on additional earning by not  spinning up more servers , now that it is pretty obvious the demand is going up    if that  additional earning   of having more of your product available to provide  is less than it costs to permanently over-provision a resource  web servers, mask production factories, etc. , then it is not economical to do so.  cloud infrastructure is becoming incredibly liquid, because resources are very flexible and can be pooled. a high traffic day for my website might be a low traffic day for yours. a cloud provider could scale down your site  saving you money  by uninstalling your software from a server, reassigning that server to me, and use it to scale up my site by installing my software on it  raising my infrastructure costs, but also raising my business  income because it has not gone down . there are even auto-scaling systems that can scale your service up and down in response to current load. there is still some lead time, on the order of a few minutes for web server virtual machines.  the real world is much less flexible than software. if masks are in hot demand, but construction helmets are not, you can not re-purpose the injection molds for hard hats into face-mask stitching machines. there are many factors involved in deciding whether or not its worth in investing to grow the mask manufacturing business:   how many masks are available in reserve  in the warehouses of factories and distributors, in hospitals, in military bases, etc. how long do we think this epidemic will last  will it last long enough to deplete the reserves  is it long-term enough to justify the high up front expenses  how much marginal profit is there to be made in selling these extra masks    interestingly, this problem repeats itself and plays itself out upstream in the supply chain. are the companies that make mask-stitching machines able to produce enough for the new demand  what about their upstream supply chain  	
according to the world health organization is situation report for march 12th, the african region has only recorded 51 cases of the covid-19 virus, and only one of these cases has been fatal. the disease has so far only been recorded in 9 of the 54 african countries, with only three of these countries reporting more than a couple of cases.  given the wider spread of the disease in practically every other region, and that the african population is around 1.3 billion, this appears to be a clear anomaly.  what reasons are there for this apparent inconsistency with expectations   answer health care in many sub-saharan african countries is extremely sparse. as an example, sierra leone has less than 250 doctors for the entire country. as a result, it is likely that cases in that and similar countries are grossly under-reported. 	
to reduce the risk of infection by viruses  including 2019-ncov  the cdc suggests:   wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol if soap and water are not available. avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. avoid close contact with people who are sick. stay home when you are sick. cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.   to my knowledge most alcohol-based hand sanitizers use ethanol. in clinical settings sometimes isopropanol is also used.  question: how exactly do alcohols, especially ethanol and isopropanol provide some disinfecting action against viruses  are the virus particles simply dissolved  what happens   answer alcohols dissolve lipid bilayers  many viruses have an outer lipid bilayer. ethanol lyses cells, and in the same fashion damages membrane-bound viruses by rupturing the bilayer  which is made of ethanol-soluble lipids .   alcohols misfold the protein coats of viruses  additionally, alcohols denature proteins, which misfold in non-aqueous conditions. some viral surface proteins are important for adhesion and attachment, and misfolding these renders the virus inactive. the total breakdown of viruses is essentially due to the misfolding of their protein coat  the capsid .  the same goes for bacteria  with the additional effect of dehydrating cells  alcohols substitute the water contents of a tissue and have been as such used as fixatives. common laboratory examples include methanol and ethanol.  typically, 70   140 proof  ethanol is used for bench wiping to kill or inactivate microbes. this includes viruses.  this is all standard, common, easily and readily accessible knowledge. here is a bonus source. 	
why is every country responding so differently  answer a lot has to do with politics and history. while some places, like hong kong, have had extensive experience with serious outbreaks and quickly put in place a plan to contain the virus, others were slower to react and  failed to take the outbreak seriously enough  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/world/coronavirus-world-health- organization.html , according to the w.h.o. that is contributed to the lack of a united response. while the w.h.o. is supposed to coordinate the global response to epidemics, the group, a u.n. agency, does not have the authority to force countries to follow its plan. culture and government also play a role. chinese citizens responded quickly to aggressive restrictions put in place by their authoritarian government, while  italians were not initially as compliant  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/08/world/europe/italy-coronavirus- quarantine.html .	
how does covid-19 spread  answer people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick. who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share updated findings. can the virus that causes covid-19 be transmitted through the air studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air. see previous answer on  how does covid-19 spread  can covid-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms the main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. the risk of catching covid-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. however, many people with covid-19 experience only mild symptoms. this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. it is therefore possible to catch covid-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill. who is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of covid-19 and will continue to share updated findings. can i catch covid-19 from the feces of someone with the disease the risk of catching covid-19 from the feces of an infected person appears to be low. while initial investigations suggest the virus may be present in feces in some cases, spread through this route is not a main feature of the outbreak. who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share new findings. because this is a risk, however, it is another reason to clean hands regularly, after using the bathroom and before eating.	
everyone knows  and passionately hates  the runny nose, coughing, sneezing, aching/sore joints, and the drowsiness associated with the cold. but these symptoms are just the body trying to get rid of the rhinovirus. what does the cold actually do to you, and what would happen if the body did not fight it  would you just die   answer common cold is one of the labels used to describe non specific infection of the upper respiratory tract. other labels include acute rhinitis, acute rhinopharyngitis or acute coryza.  upper respiratory tract infections  uri  can be caused by multiple virus families such as the rhinovirus  the most common cause of uri , the influenza virus, the coronavirus and the adenovirus.  while most of the uri share similar manifestations like rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, cough and sore throat, some symptoms may be much likely associated with a specific type of virus: myalgia and fatigue are commonly seen in influenza and parainfluenza infections, while conjunctivitis are often linked to adenovirus infection.  in general cases, uri are self limited diseases. however, some patients  children aged less than 1 year and adults aged more than 65 years, pregnant woman, and people of any age with comorbid illnesses  are at risk of developing complications. pulmonary complications are the most frequent complications of influenza infection and are often associated with secondary bacterial infection that can lead to acute lung injury. the latter is associated with high mortality rate. neuromuscular and cardiovascular complications are less common.  sources:   kasper, dennis l, and tinsley r. harrison. harrison is principles of internal medicine. new york: mcgraw-hill, medical pub. division, rothberg mb1, haessler sd. complications of seasonal and pandemic influenza.crit care med. 2010 apr 38 4 suppl :e91-7  	
i have read a lot about the outbreak of the coronavirus, i know that in january scientists had already sequenced the viral genome.  how was the virus identified prior to the sequencing  given that viruses are not like germs that you can see and distinguish readily in microscope, how could scientists know that there was something new about the new disease and how could they purify the pathogen that cause that disease without knowing what it is and without knowing its genetic code   where can i find information about procedures that are used to identify new viral pathogens   given that there is a group of people with suspicious desease, what are the laboratory procedures used to eliminate known pathogens and how you discover that you have a novel virus without knowing its genetic sequence  and without the ability to extract it - as far as i know you can not isolate virus particle with tweezers... .  thank you    answer this is basic epidemiology. when medical professionals notice that a group of people with some characteristic in common, are being seen for a similar disease, they ask if there is a connection. in this case, several people in wuhan were diagnosed with severe pneumonia, and the doctors noticed that they worked in the same location.     three adult patients presented with severe pneumonia and were admitted to a hospital in wuhan on december 27, 2019. ... her occupation was retailer in the seafood wholesale market. ... he had been a frequent visitor to the seafood wholesale market.   --a novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in china, 2019  you are more likely to follow up when the disease is unusual or severe, and when the connecting factor is unusual or suspicious. in this case, the severe pneumonia was presumably unexpected, and live animal markets always have potential for disease transmission.    in fact, it is quite possible that the virus had been circulating in the region for weeks before this cluster was noticed, and that previous cases had not been surprising enough to trigger the research needed to identify a new virus  though it is also likely that the medical personnel in wuhan had noticed that there were an usually high number of pneumonia cases and were already looking for a connection.   see also the answers to how did scientists discover hiv . old-fashioned epidemiology is always critical.  the same article explains how the virus was sequenced:    bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid samples were collected in sterile cups to which virus transport medium was added. ... rna extracted from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid and culture supernatants was used as a template to clone and sequence the genome. we used a combination of illumina sequencing and nanopore sequencing to characterize the virus genome.    and isolated:    ... supernatant from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid samples was inoculated onto the apical surface of the cell cultures. ... after three passages, apical samples and human airway epithelial cells were prepared for transmission electron microscopy. ...    so briefly, they took patient samples, grew them on cultured cells, used electron microscopy to check the kind of virus. they sequenced fluid  not cells, since the virus would be secreted into the fluid, making it a relatively pure source of virus rna  and then sequenced using a standard high-throughput sequencing approach  knowing the likely kind of virus would make this easier but is not essential. there would have been lots of human rna in the sequence, but it is easy to bioinformatically separate that out and limit your analysis to the viral sequences. the virus isolate was also not essential for the identification  knowing the sequence is the critical information today. but having a virus isolate certainly makes all the subsequent work much easier.  this is pretty standard modern molecular biology, not an esoteric skill. 	
how does covid-19 spread  answer people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick.	
my university, like many others, has recently moved to remote teaching in response to the corona virus situation. in my department, the faculty have taken the lead on finding and adopting solutions to the difficulties posed by the transition. i am a postdoc and not directly involved in a lot of the big changes. but i wonder if the faculty are sealing their fate, being so helpful when there is a counterparty, the administration, that may not have the faculty is best interests at heart  note, i have no direct knowledge either way .   specifically, barring any big disasters in remote teaching these next weeks/months, i would guess 1  smaller schools close to insolvency, many of which have closed these last few years, would instead have an opportunity to cut costs by dispensing with or heavily decreasing in-person instruction, without facing the pr issues or other pushback that would otherwise bring, and 2  even in schools with secure finances, or where it is unrealistic to get rid of in-person instruction, professors would lose a lot of bargaining power in any negotiations with the administration, since they will be regarded as that much less necessarily. possibly the next few weeks/months will demonstrate that the professors are in fact less necessary, and remote learning is perhaps preferable. i am not really asking about that, my question is more selfish as someone going on the job market soon. are these outcomes likely  this type of concern must be on the radar of professors  unions, no   answer well, based on the 3 institutions i have close contact with, their attempts in the past few weeks hardly represent a shining example of hugely successful online learning  it feels more like the keystone kops   that bit of snark out of the way, effective teaching in the online/mooc/e-channel, etc. is not easy, and making the transition between a face to face course and an effective online course requires a lot of thought and a lot of design a prep, which of course no-one has has time to do this time around. so my snark was not meant as a true criticism, but at the same time, it means that mainstream universities  efforts in the balance of this semester are themselves unlikely to make anyone -- teachers or learners -- say,  hey, that went really well  let is dispense with classroom instruction altogether .  that being said, i do think this will strongly accelerate the shift towards e-learning in the medium- and long-term, and that in 2 ways.   in the long term, this will make e-learning a much more mainstream offering that students and faculty will become more comfortable exploring and integrating into the curriculum. forced immersion brings familiarity and less fear. up to now, in north america at least, we tended to have old-school in-person institutions, a few more e-learning focused disruptor institutions, and a select few dabbling in moocs layered on top of their usual approach. there was a lot of mutual mistrust. that will lessen. and just like a greater degree of teleworking throughout the economy, with the pandora is box on it opened, will persist past current social isolation, so will demand for -- and willingness of faculty to explore -- e-learning. next year, there will be a lot of financially and emotionally wounded students, whose life plan took a pretty big hit. some will be keen and able to return to their university campuses and continue as before. some will not be, and when they get their affairs in order a few years later, in a world that will have lived through months of forced virtual work and socialization, they will probably be keener to explore online offerings than they were previously. and the more they start work somewhere and become mature learners, or the more straitened their financial circumstances become, the more they will seek out good-value-for-money education with schedule and geographic flexibility, and the less they will be keen to return and pay for the conventional on-campus student experience. of course that will not apply to all, but i suspect to enough that it will make a difference at the macro level.  	
how did the first human sars-cov-2 infections occur  answer the first human cases of covid-19 were identified in wuhan city, china in december 2019. at this stage, it is not possible to determine precisely how humans in china were initially infected with sars-cov-2.however, sars-cov, the virus which caused the sars outbreak in 2003, jumped from an animal reservoir  civet cats, a farmed wild animal  to humans and then spread between humans. in a similar way, it is thought that sars-cov-2 jumped the species barrier and initially infected humans, but more likely through an intermediate host, that is another animal species more likely to be handled by humans - this could be a domestic animal, a wild animal, or a domesticated wild animal and, as of yet, has not been identified.until the source of this virus is identified and controlled, there is a risk of reintroduction of the virus in the human population and the risk of new outbreaks like the ones we are currently experiencing.	
how can i prepare in case my child is school, child care facility, or university is dismissed  answer talk to the school or facility about their emergency operations plan. understand the plan for continuing education and social services  such as student meal programs  during school dismissals. if your child attends a college or university, encourage them to learn about the school is plan for a covid-19 outbreak.	
most signs show that lockdown could easily stretch through the summer. a freeze in consumer spending would cause multiple industries to fail causing a ripple effect.  to be specific, if lockdown lasts through the summer, and a second virus wave occurs in the fall as expected, then lockdowns will continue further into the year. the timeframe for a vaccine is 12-18 months earliest. then, the vaccine must be manufactured and distributed. since the virus is so widespread that it is now assumed that it will reach a global critical mass, this essentially guarantees the collapse of the restaurant, airline, tourism, and hotel industries as they cannot sustain prolonged losses in a capitalistic structure. if they fail, their suppliers fail, and so on. history has shown that large systems are prone to failure time and time again, esp. when accountability is obfuscated  e.g. the titanic, the world wars/holocaust, and now this . in the past egypt fell, and then rome fell. what is to say our current systems will not fail, even if as a slowly sinking ship   edit: this question was closed, before i received enough good, thoughtful answers. as of tonight  april 4th  bernie sanders held a virtual address on the situation. he is looking at the unemployment projections that were posted by the st. louis fed is models and has spoken with a number of economists. finally a voice of reason in this media circus. he has confirmed that a potential collapse is possible as another 47 million americans may become jobless - this is unprecedented and would be absolutely devastating to american civilization.  answer as a disclaimer, this is not an answer, rather a long-form explanation of the difficulties of answering.  the first leg is uncertainty about the danger of the epidemic. economists are not medical experts. for example, one could imagine that there is an amazing breakthrough where a common medicine saves patients. the economic effects of that scenario are very different than the scenarios presented by governments. more realistically, we do not know how strong activity restrictions have to be to control the epidemic.  the next leg of uncertainty is the government response. governments have the capacity to bail out entities  firms, households  that get in trouble. we do not know what they will do.  even if we knew all that, there is uncertainty about the best model that takes all this in. it is very unusual for governments to restrict economic activity in such a broad-based manner, and so there are no standard models.  there is a flood of research.   finally,  conventional  economics does not really spend much time looking into societal collapse scenarios. there are areas of academia that do this, and there is presumably studies in economic history. experts in those subject areas are not normally visiting this website.  	
why is providing contraception/ family planning, as well as family planning services and information, important during the covid-19 pandemic  answer contraception and family planning information and services are life-saving and important at all times. sexual activity does not cease with the covid-19 pandemic, it is therefore crucial to ensure that people are able to access rights-based services and information to initiate and / or continue use of contraception. by preventing unintended pregnancies, contraception helps to protect girls and women from the negative health consequences of unintended pregnancies, which can save their lives. contraception reduces the need for abortion, meaning that women and girls are less at risk of unsafe abortion, which again can be lifesaving. condoms, when used consistently and correctly, help to prevent both unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections  including stis . in addition, by preventing the negative health consequences associated with unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortion and sexually transmitted infections  including hiv , contraception can help alleviate unnecessary additional pressure on already-stretched health systems which are working hard to address covid-19.	
for context, australia, where i live, currently sits at  130 confirmed cases, which makes me feel relatively safe for now, but naturally this will get worse with time as other countries  examples suggest. i will be working from home, avoiding public transport and limiting shopping to the minimum. i live in suburban sydney, so one of the major population centers.  how safe is it to continue solo outdoors training with the current and predicted covid-19 situation  specifically, i mean cycling without a group  i.e. maintaining a good degree of separation from any other humans at any given time . i imagine it has to be considerably safer than e.g. grocery shopping. can the virus remain airborne outdoors for long periods of time   answer the long and short of it is that the novel coronavirus can be experimentally aerosolized where it can persist in the air for several hours but a number of studies have failed to detect virus in samples taken from the air of the rooms of patients with active disease. but virus has been detected in aerosols near bathrooms surfaces indicates that it is spread over a long distance with mechanical assistance  flushing  . sars was also spread by one patient with diarhoea with malfunctioning sewer systems aerolized the virus across multiple floors of a building.    both the covid-19 and the sars viruses had an aerosol half-life of 2.7 hours, meaning half the particles drop out of the air after that amount of time, and half of what remains drop out after another 2.7 hours. after a day, roughly nine half-lives, 0.002  0.2 of 1   of the original particles remain. as a result, the scientists said,  aerosol ... transmission of  the new coronavirus  is plausible, as the virus can remain viable in aerosols for multiple hours.    the usual spread may be via contaminated surfaces  probably on the cruise ships  and respiratory transmission less so since the rate of symptomatic infection among a patient is household members was 10.5   since you are outside based on the above, the viral load would be miniscule.  http://www.statnews.com/2020/03/16/coronavirus-can-become-aerosol-doesnt-mean-doomed/  http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.09.20033217v2.full.pdf  not peer reviewed yet   	
can i catch covid-19 from my pet  answer we are aware of instances of animals and pets ofcovid-19 patients being infected with the disease as the intergovernmental body responsible for improving animal healthworldwide, the world organisation for animal health  oie  has been developing technicalguidance on specialised topics related to animal health, dedicated toveterinary services and technical experts  including on testing andquarantine  there is a possibility for some animals to becomeinfected through close contact with infected humans. further evidence isneeded to understand if animals and pets can spread thedisease based on current evidence, human to human transmission remainsthe main driver it is still too early to say whether cats could be theintermediate host in the transmission of the covid-19.	
is the outbreak a pandemic  answer yes.  the world health organization defines a pandemic as  the worldwide spread of a new disease,  and on march 11, the who is director general announced that covid-19 met those criteria.  dr. tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, the who is director general, stressed that the designation does not mean that citizens should stop trying to contain the virus.   find, isolate, test and treat every case, and trace every contact,  he said.  ready your hospitals. protect and train your health care workers.   for the united states, community transmission in several cities and a growing number of cases that are not able to be traced to travel or contact with individuals diagnosed with covid-19 makes it probable that there will be extensive spread here.   a lot of us have been sitting back and watching this from a distant place,  schaffner noted, adding that the game has changed in recent days. he cautioned against  running around like a chicken with its head cut off,  and recommended thinking ahead. a large increase in cases in your community could mean school closures or other changes to your routine.   be prudent and be prepared to participate as much as you can in social distancing when that becomes the order of the day,  he said. if health authorities advise against mass gatherings, for example, do not make a fuss.   it should not panic you,  schaffner said.  but it should get your attention. 	
i am a master is student in epidemiology. it is an insane time in our field right now. of course, i find what is going on fascinating  that is why i am in this field , but extremely stressful as well.   i have 2 advisors. my primary advisor is not working on covid-19 related stuff. so, although she is really busy trying to re-plan all of her classes to be remote and just reorganize everything, she is not responding directly to the outbreak. my co-advisor, however, is on the response team for the outbreak in my country. basically, she is working with the government to create models to predict the trajectory of the disease. i had a meeting with her 1.5 weeks ago and she said basically all she has on her mind is covid-19. that was before the world went into quarantine so i imagine things have become even busier for her.   my primary advisor sent me an email today talking about how to move forward and in the email she mentioned that it does depend on how busy my co-advisor is  but also assured me we would figure this all out .   unfortunately, the project i am working on now is a modelling project and my primary advisor is not a modeller, so it is my co-advisor that needs to move the project forward. i still have other things to do for my thesis, but i am almost done those other things and i am just in the editing stages. i have a lot more to do on my modelling project, but my co-advisor is extremely busy right now. i am finished what she asked me to do a couple of weeks ago and want to send it to her.  sorry for the long post explaining my situation. my question is, should i send her the things the i have finished or would that be a bit tone-deaf  what should i even say in the email  i do not want to come off as not caring about the biggest health crisis in at least a decade while asking her to review something that is not even related to covid-19. how should i even frame the email or should i hold off from sending her things for a few weeks    if it makes a difference, although i do have an office, i can do 100  of my work remotely  and do usually work from home at least 3 days a week .   answer as someone who is been out of academia for a while, i would like to offer a different perspective. yes, occupying your co-advisor is attention when the roof is on fire is tone-deaf. however: you have acquired skills that are obviously in high demand these days, and are thrown into a  hopefully  once-in-a lifetime situation to apply these skills. especially since you are not on a strict deadline with your thesis, there are now more important things than finishing the thesis at the scheduled time. see this as an opportunity, not an obstacle.  check if this is okay with your primary advisor, then send a mail to your co-advisor saying that you would be glad to put your thesis on ice and help her with her covid work if she has anything you could be of help with. if you are a capable student, she probably will.   then, when things have calmed down, reevaluate the situation, see what you have learned in the meantime, and continue from there. 	
i heard eidls are based on credit and mine is not that great. should i still apply  answer yes  in a recent webinar, alex contreras, director of preparedness, communication   coordination at the office of disaster assistance at the sba said that they will try to be flexible and that even a bankruptcy does not necessarily disqualify you. additionally, there are no application, guarantee or prepayment fees, so there is no harm in applying. even if you do not qualify for additional funds, you can still get the grant.	
we were intending to travel to norway   more days  and finland  2days  from 18.03.2020 till 1.04.2020. now due to the quarantine mandate issued by the norway government to all foreign nationals entering norway it is difficult to complete the norway part of our tour. we had a finnair flight via helsinki to norway and we were leaving from helsinki after 2 days stay there.  under this unusual situation is it possible that we do the entire tour in finland without visiting norway at all. schengen visa has been issued by norway. this is an unusual situation as we will be compelled to be in quarantine irrespective of the health status in norway. so there is no use in visiting the country. but we also do not want to cancel our plan. so checking out and need advice whether we can do the entire tour in finland though originally finland constituted a lesser part of our tour.  answer i must say that nobody knows what is going to happen and that the situation is developing quickly in europe.  first i would suggest that you talk to your airline. normally if you miss a single segment then the whole rest of your trip  including your return  would be cancelled automatically.  given the circumstances then the airlines are generally being very flexible, but you must first check what they will and will not allow and then change your itinery accordingly and not just not take a flight.   next  or in parrallel  i would suggest contacting your local finnish embassy and explaining the situation. tell them that your schengen visa was issued by norway, that you are flying via helsinki anyway and would now like to spend the enture trip there rather than the couple of days you previously planned. and then ask if they would, given the circumstances, allow you to enter and remain therer for xx days.  it really depends on how flexible they are. they might allow this. they might say that you should get a new visa issued. they might reduce or waive the cost. but you should check first.  if i was you, i would also consider making alternative plans. talk to the airline about rescheduling the trip, as it is likely that they will allow you to do this free of charge at the moment.  only you can judge if this is a worthwhile trip for you given the cirumstances. my personal opinion is that the next two weeks are going to get worse, and it will be awhile before the situation improves.  	
is there a way to calculate the riskiest places to be infected by covid-19  my friends and i are having an argument of whether being in a  high traffic-short contact time  situation  public transport  vs  low traffic-high contact time  situation  e.g. place of worship/seminar  is more risky to be infected.   i know it is wise to avoid all of such situations in the practice. but i want to find a way to calculate it even if it requires assigning dummy/guesswork numbers for unknown probability. where do i begin   answer first of all,  the computation is very theoretic and not a good representation or guideline for adapting your behavior  just in case, if that is what you are after . in the comments i had already mentioned several points of critique for this approach:   the problem is that these computations will be based on highly subjective estimates about the underlying model/assumptions. yes, you can compute it.... but do not expect that the answer is rigorous just because it has used mathematics another problem is that the descriptions of contacts are very complex. how exactly are you gonna be in the description of the notime of contact   are you differentiating just the time of contact or also the type of contact  it is not a deterministic model and you need to deal with with distributions and stochastic behaviour that will make computations more difficult.  see for example the report about transmission of sars in airplanes: there were three cases described with an infected person on board. in one case tens of other passengers got infected. in the other two cases it was only one other person  a crew member  that got infected.  in addition, are you gonna describe the probability for a single person, or the probability for the public health  in high traffic the probability for a single individual might be low but due to the large number of individuals in those situations there might be a probability that at least one or more persons get infected.   for public health, the problem is not to compare cases based on the probabilities for individuals to become sick. but instead, the point is to reduce the probability for individuals spreading the virus, make others sick. in general those probabilities  to make others sick  are much higher with high traffic cases. sick people should not be around many other people.  there are many of these strange probability effects around. for instance, in europe there is a lot of focus on people who had contact with the high risk areas  and it seems to be ignored that one may acquire the virus locally as well.  indeed, when considering only a contact with a single person, then it is more likely to obtain the virus if this person is from  or had contact with  a high risk area. however, due to the much larger number of contacts with people outside the risk area it may be more likely to acquire the virus from one of those people, albeit the fact that the risk per contact is lower. still, it is not illogical to focus on the high risk areas. but that is more a consideration from the point of view of focusing the limited time, money and materials. yes, it is more likely to get the coronavirus from somebody that is not from the risk area is. but there are many other viruses from which one may obtain a common cold and we can not deal with all of those cases. when we wish to focus efforts on the most important cases, then the consideration is for which people the common cold is most likely to be due to the coronavirus. in that case it is linked to the high risk areas.      a possible solution  based on a simple model ,  let is consider the  unrealistic  probability of obtaining an infection, conditional on the other person being sick  this is a bit complex, there are different levels of being sick but let is consider this for single cases .  say, the probability noto get sick from a single contact of time  t   is a function of contact time according to some  sort of  homogeneous poisson process  ie. the waiting time to get hit/sick depends on an exponentially distributed variable and the longer the contact the more likely to get sick      p  text sick from contact time  t      1 - e  - lambda t     if you encounter  n  people, each for a time  t , sampled from a population of which  p    are sick...   then the number of sick people,  s , that you encounter is binomial distributed   p s s      n  choose s   p s 1-p   n-s    the probability of getting sick from those  s  people is:   p  text sick   vert t,s    1- e  - lambda ts    the marginal probability of getting sick is    begin array    p  text sick   vert t, n   amp     amp   sum  s 0  n  overset   substack  llap  text probability   rlap  text  to encounter        llap  text  s  sick    rlap  text people        overbrace p s s         times  underset   substack  llap  text probability to    rlap  text get sick       llap  text conditional    rlap  text  on       llap  text encountering  s     rlap  text  sick people        underbrace p  text sick   vert t,s              amp   amp  1-  sum  s  0  n   s  choose n   p s 1-p   n-s e  - lambda ts      amp   amp  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t  right  n   end array    where i solved this last term with wolframalpha.   note that      lim  n to  infty  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t/n  right  n   1 - e  - lambda t p      for a given fixed total contact  c   n times t  times  lambda  you get an increase as function of  n . for instance, if  c   10  then:    intuitive overview  below are two graphs that show the value of this term  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t  right  n   as function of contact time  t  and number of contacts  n . the plots are made for different values of  p .  note the following regions:   on the right side the contact time is very large and you are almost certainly gonna get infected if the person that you have contact with is sick. more specifically for the lower right corner  if  n 1  and  t  is very large  the probability of getting sick will be equal to  p   ie. the probability that the other person is sick .  more generally for the right side, the region where   lambda t gt 1 , a change in the contact time is not gonna change much the probability to get sick from a single person  this curve  1-e  - lambda t   does not change much in value for large   lambda t  .  so if   lambda t gt 1   and you are almost certainly getting sick if the other person is sick  then if you halve the contact time and double the number of contacts, then this is gonna increase the probability to get sick  because the probability to encounter a sick person increases . on the left side for   lambda t  lt  1  you will get that at some point an increase of  n  with an equal decrease of  t  will counter each other. on the left side it does not matter whether you have high traffic short time vs. low traffic high time.         conclusion  so, say you consider total contact time  n times t  being constant, then this should lead to a higher probability for getting sick for higher  n   shorter contacts but with more people .   limitations  however the assumptions will not hold in practice. the time of contact is an abstract concept and also the exponential distribution for the probability of getting sick from a single person is not accurate.   possibly there might be something like contact being more/less intense in the beginning  to compare in the simple model the probability to get sick from a single contact of time  t  is approximately linear in time  1-e   lambda t   approx  lambda t   also when considering infections of groups, instead of individuals, then there might be correlations like when a sick person sneezes then it will hit multiple people at the same time. think about the cases of superspreaders, e.g. the case of the sars outbreak in the amoy gardens apartment complex where likely a single person infected hundreds of others    so based on the simple model there is this effect that of for a given total time of contact,  n  times t , is better to spread it out among less people,  n .  however, there is an opposite effect. at some point, for short  t , the transmission will be relatively unlikely. for instance, a walk on a busy street means high  n  but the contacts will not be meaningful to create a high risk.  potentially you could adapt this first equation  1 - e   lambda t   but it is very subjective/broad . you could think like something as the  5 seconds rule   which is actually not correct but gets close to the idea .  use of the simple model  although the model used here is very simplistic, it does still help to get a general idea about what sort of measures should be taken and how the principle would work out for a more complex model  it will be more or less analogous to the simple model :   on the right side  of the image , it does not help much to change  reduce  the contact time, and it is more important to focus on reducing the number of contacts  e.g. some of the rigorous advise for non-sick family-members that are in quarantine together with sick family members are not much useful since restricting   lambda t  for large   lambda t  has little effect and it would be better to focus on making less contacts  go cook yourself instead of ordering that pizza   on the left side, reductions should be weighed against each other. when restrictions that reduce high traffic are gonna lead to low traffic but a longer time then the measures are not gonna help a lot.   a very clear example: i am currently waiting in line to enter the supermarket. they have decided to reduce the number of total people inside the supermarket. but this is entirely useless and possibly detrimental. the total time that we are in contact with other people does not decrease because of this.  and there are secondary effects: partners alone at home with children that have to wait longer. potential shopping at multiple markets because time is limited at single markets. etc. it is just silly   i am letting the older people in the line pass before me since the health effects may be worse for them. and in the meantime i make myself annoyed about this symbolical useless measure  if not even detrimental  and have sufficient time to type this edit in this post, and in the meantime either make other people sick or become sick myself. 	
i am an international student, supposed to start graduate studies this fall in hong kong, mid august onwards. with the ongoing 2019 novel-cov  corona virus  crisis in hong kong, i am getting concerned about what will happen. i have stopped applying to graduate schools since i already got my first priority offer from hong kong in early january.   i realize it might be petty in light of the current events in china and the sars to talk about my graduate studies options when people are getting infected daily in the thousands, but are there any predictions as to whether the virus will be contained soon  should i start looking for backups   answer even the most cautious models right now models the virus to be contained towards the end of may.  give that you then have a few more months until august i would say this is not so much of a worry for you if you are a normal middle age person with no prior heart or respiratory conditions and even so in august the risk should be minimal.  i am currently in the middle of it all in mainland china, and with common sense and hygiene i am not at all worried about this virus.  follow the recommendations, do not spend in needed time in public places etc and things are totally fine.  so keep up to date with the news but for august timeframes i would not worry to much. 	
what is involved in testing for the coronavirus  is it the same as when they do a nasal swab for influenza  answer to collect a sample for a diagnostic test for sars-cov-2, the virus that causes the covid-19 disease, doctors typically use the same method of collection as they would for influenza: a nasopharyngeal swab. for this swab, a tiny q-tip on plastic or a wire stem is put up your nose about 3 or 4 inches.   i have had it done, and it is mildly uncomfortable for a few seconds,  said gregory poland, director of the mayo clinic is vaccine research group.  a doctor may also do a throat swab. in some cases, if you have a  wet  cough, a doctor may also have you cough up some phlegm into a collection cup. these specimen are then packed with ice and shipped to a lab for testing.  to determine if someone has recovered from the coronavirus, at least two different nasal swabs taken at least 24 hours apart must test negative, poland said.	
will schools and workplaces be shut down  answer it is likely that the coronavirus pandemic will have a major impact on your daily life in the short term. mass events will be cancelled, sporting games will be played to empty stadiums, and it is likely that at some point your workplace might ask you to work from home. mass school shutdowns are a last-resort measure, and whether this happens will depend on what we learn about children is role in transmitting the virus. but these major interventions in your life will not last forever -- we are likely to see the virus peak in australia some time during winter, and the number of cases will then start to decline. there is a good chance that this virus will become endemic in the population like other coronaviruses.	
are infected people able to transmit the virus to their pets and visa versa  answer no, there is no evidence that pets such as cats and dogs have been infected or could spread the virus that causes covid-19, according to the who.    last month, the pet dog of a coronavirus patient in hong kong tested  weak  positive for covid-19 and was put in quarantine. scientists concluded that pet cats and dogs can test positive for low levels of the pathogen if they catch it from their owners, but pets can not get sick from the virus.	
how can i know if i have the coronavirus and should go for a test  answer if you have symptoms and want to get tested, the cdc recommends calling your state or local health department or a medical provider.    not sure if you should get tested  the cdc website features a  self-checker  to help you make decisions about seeking medical care. the feature is not intended for the diagnosis or treatment of covid-19 and is intended only for people in the u.s.	
are there special procedures for the management of bodies of persons who have died from 2019-ncov  answer no, there are no special procedures for the management of bodies of persons who have died from 2019-ncov. authorities and medical facilities should proceed with their existing policies and regulations that guide post-mortem management of persons who died from infectious diseases.	
i would like to have a confusing part of medicine cleared up. my experience of medical intervention is as follows.   as pointed out in the answer to does taking antibiotics make you immune to virus  antibiotics do not work on viruses. if i go to a doctor when suffering from the common cold, i am told to ride it out and take paracetamol for aches and pains. that makes sense as the common cold is caused by a virus. if visiting the doctor because a chest infection arises however, a course of antibiotics is often prescribed.   how does a doctor manage to determine that the chest infection is a bacterial infection rather than a viral infection from the common cold virus   if the bacterial infection arose out of a common cold infection, why is it the bacterial infection occurred and not a viral infection   answer this is actually a pretty complicated question because viral infections can damage the lungs in a way that makes subsequent bacterial infections possible/likely and it is often these that are fatal. so if co-occurring both may need to be treated, with different medications, or the viral infection may be ignored sometimes. it basically depends on the severity of the pneumonia  which i am guessing it is what you mean by  chest infection  . for some background on causes of pneumonia:    pneumonia is an infection of the lung that causes the alveoli, or air sacs, to fill up with fluid or pus.  ...  if pneumonia does not resolve it can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome  ards , sepsis, increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and decreased pulmonary function.    there are several viral infections that lead to pneumonia  16 . influenza a virus  iav  primarily infects the lung epithelium, and can cause viral pneumonia.  ...  there are also a variety of other viruses that can infect the lower respiratory tract and lead to pneumonia, including respiratory syncytial virus  rsv , parainfluenza, human metapneumonia, and some adenoviruses  14, 18-22 . rhinoviruses and newly described coronaviruses also infect the respiratory tract and cause disease.  ...     a variety of bacteria can also lead to the development of pneumonia. bacterial pathogens as well as opportunistic infections  also known as pathobionts  can lead to pneumonia when allowed to infect the lower respiratory region. bacteria that cause lrtis naturally colonize the nasopharynx, but can cause disease when allowed to proliferate in the lower respiratory region  24-28 . the most common examples of these are streptococcus pneumoniae and staphylococcus aureus. other bacteria are acquired from the environment, and often these bacteria have specific virulence factors that allow for the adaptation and infection of the lower respiratory tract  29 .  ...     the vast majority of research in infection biology has been devoted to studying the interactions of a single pathogen with a host. in addition to single infections causing pneumonia, a common complication following infection with respiratory viruses is bacterial pneumonia  9, 26, 39-56 .many clinical infections and presumably subclinical infections are often in fact coinfections, in that two  or more  pathogens simultaneously or in close temporal proximity infect a single host  9, 26, 39-59 . these infections are termed secondary infection, superinfection, or coinfection. the simultaneous response of two pathogens can manifest in many ways and often results in increased morbidity and mortality.     to determine the best treatment options for patients with complex viral/bacterial coinfections increased understanding of the interplay between pathogens and the interaction with the host is necessary. several viruses and bacteria have been shown to interact to worsen clinical outcomes. it is now believed that most of the deaths associated with the 1918 influenza pandemic were caused by superinfection with bacteria  60, 61 . iav/s. pneumoniae coinfection is perhaps the most well-studied example of viral/bacterial coinfection of the lung  62 . however, bacterial coinfection also complicates infection with other respiratory viruses, including rhinovirus, metapneumonovirus, rsv, parainfluenza virus, adenovirus, and coronavirus  52, 63-66 . young children are especially vulnerable to bacterial complications following viral infection  44, 62, 67, 68 .   so the nice  i.e. uk  guidelines for diagnosing pneumonia say for example:    community-acquired pneumonia  cap  is a lower respiratory tract infection most commonly caused by bacteria  however, viruses are thought to cause approximately 13  of cases in adults, and approximately 66  of cases in children and young people. the main bacterial pathogen causing cap is streptococcus pneumoniae, followed by haemophilus influenzae  epidemics of mycoplasma pneumoniae occur approximately every 4 years in the uk, and mainly affect children.    inappropriate prescribing of antibiotics for respiratory tract infections is common in general practice.  ...    so if you are an adult suffering from pneumonia  the covid-19 pandemic aside  chances are you more likely you have bacterial pneumonia.    ng120 also emphasises the importance of face-to-face clinical examination in patients with acute cough if prescription of an antibiotic is being considered. clinicians should therefore avoid issuing antibiotics for cough without a face-to-face examination. if bacterial pneumonia is suspected, it is important to assess the clinical signs and to determine their severity.  ...     an antibiotic should be offered within 4 hours of establishing a diagnosis of pneumonia, and a 5-day course is considered appropriate in all severity gradings.   also worth quoting from those guidelines:    in practice, patients often return at the end of the antibiotic course due to concerns that symptoms have not resolved  however, in pneumonia, we should not expect symptom resolution at this stage. when issuing an antibiotic, it is important to explain to patients that their symptoms are highly unlikely to have resolved at the end of the course, but that the infection will have been adequately treated. it may be helpful to bear in mind that chest x-rays are not expected to return to normal for up to 6 weeks after pneumonia, reflecting the ongoing inflammatory rather than infective process.    sputum samples do not need to be routinely sent for patients with cap treated in primary care. however, they can be useful if signs or symptoms have not improved as expected after antibiotic treatment, or in people who have previously had frequent courses of antibiotics, as this increases the likelihood of resistant organisms.   basically, unless the pneumonia is severe enough  to require hospitalization , you will not get a test to determine the agent that caused it, unless the first course antibiotic does not resolve it.  i can tell you from general experience that the cause of pneumonia will get tested in severe cases in a hospital setting in almost any country.  there are probably some who guidelines for this, but i can not be bothered to search them now.   short coda on covid-19:    a study of 191 patients in two wuhan hospitals showed that 50 percent of those who died tested positive for secondary infections compared to only one of the 137 survivors. in this situation, antibiotics form a crucial second line of defence. many studies indicate that nearly all severe covid-19 patients will receive antibiotics.   	
this is a strange case of difference in fatality rate between chinese and italian covid-19 outbreak.  in my knowledge, fatality rate is a ratio between deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of subjects diagnosed with the disease.  starting from this assumption, i attempted to analyze difference in fatality rate between chinese/italian outbreak. herein, i propose a reproducible r example for exploring this variable:    import dataset from authoritative source:    http://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-source-data covid  lt - read.csv  http://covid.ourworldindata.org/data/ecdc/full data.csv      subsetting only data from china and italy dataset  lt - subset covid, location     china    location     italy      fatality ratio: is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the    total number of people diagnosed with the disease for a certain period of time. dataset fatality  lt - round dataset total deaths/dataset total cases 100, 2     generating plot library ggplot2  ggplot dataset, aes as.numeric date , fatality, color   location, group   location     geom smooth size  .5, alpha .25, color    gray65     geom line     geom point     labs x  outbreak duration  days  , y   fatality rate     , color    location     theme light 14    edt:  bar plot    generating bar plot library ggplot2  ggplot     geom bar data subset dataset, location     china  ,   aes as.numeric date , fatality, fill    china  ,   stat    identity , position   position dodge  , alpha   .75     geom bar data subset dataset, location     italy  ,   aes as.numeric date , fatality, fill    italy  ,   stat    identity , position   position dodge  , alpha   .75     labs x  outbreak duration  days  , y   fatality rate     , fill    location     scale fill brewer palette    set1     theme light 14     from this basis, i am a little bit confused about such difference in terms of fatality rate between the two analyzed countries. in fact, china has the maximum fatality rate at 4 , while italy at more than 6 . for this reason i have two questions:  1  is my computation correct   2  if yes, why such a huge difference in terms of fatality rate      edt ii  i would like to improve this question reporting a recent science paper which can partially explain these differences. in fact, li et al reported that for each covid  patient, other 5-10 are undocumented covid  leading to missleading fatality rate. moreover, as reported in the comments, to date, there are no univocal diagnostic methods wordwide. however, italy is experiencing a huge increment in daily cumulative deaths compered to china:    generating bar plot library ggplot2  ggplot     geom bar data subset dataset, location     china  ,   aes as.numeric date , new deaths, fill    china  ,   stat    identity , position   position dodge  , alpha   .75     geom bar data subset dataset, location     italy  ,   aes as.numeric date , new deaths, fill    italy  ,   stat    identity , position   position dodge  , alpha   .75     labs x  outbreak duration  days  , y   daily deaths  n  , fill    location     scale fill brewer palette    set1     theme light 14      something is happening there  hubei province is almost similar to italy in terms of surface and population but very different in terms of population mean age since italy is one of the oldest eu country.  answer reason 1 something technical about the computation.  dying occurs with some delay to getting sick. as a consequence the ratio of people that got sick and the people that have died, is not equal to the ratio of people that will die.   still, if the number of sick cases and death cases both grow exponentially with the same factor then you might still expect this number to remain constant, but keep in mind that the growth is not exponential and that it is only a simplified model     reason 2 something important about the data acquisition  you might say, ok then let is compare the number of death cases with the number of sick several days ago  according to the average number that it takes between getting sick and dying .  but, the most important reason why the death rate based on these statistics is not constant and not comparible is because those numbers are only the reported cases and those may be a lot less than the real cases. so you are not computing a real death rate.  the statistic  reported/confirmed cases  is not what you think that it is  number of cases . this is especially clear in the curve of cases for china which has a bump because the number of cases rapidly increased after the defenitions were changed  from positively tested people to people with clinical symptoms  	
can the virus be transmitted through the mail  should i stop sending greeting cards  answer the chances of transmission through your mail is very low, elliott says. parts of the virus can fall on surfaces and survive on surfaces for up to 72hours. but you have to have pretty good conditions for that to happen. so thelikelihood would be very small, even with no precautions,  she said.elliott advises people to put their mail down on a plastic plate instead ofdirectly on a counter top or table, to use a letter opener, and to wash handsthoroughly after touching the mail.research on how long a virus may live on surfaces is evolving. the cdc hassaid there is likely very low risk of transmission of covid-19 from productsor packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks  because of poorsurvivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces. a  recent study  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/  found thatviable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air, up to fourhours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to two to three days onplastic and stainless steel. but  a subsequent report from thecdc  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/  found that geneticmaterial from the virus can live on surfaces for more than two weeks.	
 moderator edit: i am reopening this question by request from third parties because medical staff around the world are being forced to use masks such as these.   how does a sanding mask compare with a disposable medical mask  i have some on hand. would that be a reasonable thing to wear to protect myself and family members  corona virus   or would it give even less protection than a bandanna or a disposable medical mask     update: i am asking about the range of particle and droplet size that the two types of mask keep in/out  according to specs, and disregarding particles that can enter around the edges .  i am not asking whether you think someone should or should not wear a mask.  answer particle size-selective assessment of protection of european standard ffp respirators and surgical masks against particles-tested with human subjects    the tested ffp respirators and sms in this study were observed to have the worst protection against particles between 0.263 and 0.384 mm. the protection factors of ffp respirators against particles in the size range of 0.093-1.61 mm were not size dependent. the size ranges of viral and bacterial particles fall into this size range, and they are expected to have similar pfs. the ffp respirators provided about 11.5 to 15.9 times better protection than the sms, suggesting that sms are not a good substitute for ffp respirators when concerns exist about airborne transmission of bacterial and viral pathogens.   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5058571/  that is a ffp2 in your image and they are saying it is 12-16x better pf  protection factor  than a surgical mask  sm  	
recently there are a lot of datapoints regarding covid-19 related deaths. however i am looking to see how big the impact of non-diagnosed patients is.  therefore i want to evaluate the deaths  corrected for reported virus deaths  and see how these compare to the same period in recent years.  i understand it is best practice to avoid asking for specific data sets here, so i will keep my question as generic as possible and ask for leniency:  does anyone know how to find  or search for  recent mortality statistics  ideally this would be  per day per country up to today , but even  a total for february in a continent or city would already be insightful .    what have i tried so far:    searching recent mortality, this only results in virus related statistics searching for several countries or who, this did not result in anything for this year   answer it does not seem like the death toll is clearly showing up  yet .   for instance, europe has almost up to 10 000 deaths in a single day during the peak of a heavy respiratory season, and the covid-19 cases will only be a small bump, in relation to the overall burden of disease.  but, that would be playing down the impact of the virus. it is difficult to look at the overall death rate. many people are dying every day. we can not easily compare a single cause to the total amount of deaths that are occurring.  important to consider is that covid-19 deaths have a non-homogeneous spatial distribution and locally there is a high density that is not clear in common  public  databases that  mostly  present aggregate numbers. also, the outbreak is still young and is not yet fully processed in databases. so with better data we might be better able to see the impact of the disease  i suspect that the agencies have better information .  so the fact that we currently see little influence of covid-19 on aggregated statistics of death rate is not reassuring because it is meaningless to look at aggregated statistics  this depends a bit on your philosophy about nature and death though, personally i feel we are overreacting, but that is completely different from statistics .   see also this note from euromomo    note concerning covid-19 related mortality as part of the all-cause mortality figures reported by euromomo    over the past few days, the euromomo hub has received many questions about the weekly all-cause mortality data and the possible contribution of any covid-19 related mortality. some wonder why no increased mortality is observed in the reported mortality figures for the covid-19 affected countries.  the answer is that increased mortality that may occur primarily at subnational level or within smaller focal areas, and/or concentrated within smaller age groups, may not be detected at the overall national level. this even more so in the pooled european-wide analysis, given the large total population denominator. furthermore, there is always a few weeks of delay in death registration and reporting. hence, the euromomo mortality figures for the most recent weeks must be interpreted with some caution.  therefore, although increased mortality is currently not being observed in the euromomo figures, this does not mean that increased mortality does not occur in some areas or in some age groups, including mortality related to covid-19.  	
a part of this answer got me wondering if another state can request compensations over the huge economical cost of sars-cov-2 epidemics:     ..  the region  hk, singapore, sk , china  was hit much harder during the 2003 sars epidemic so spent more time getting prepared.     ..  it has long been the expectation that the next epidemic would come out of china, both due to population density and proximity to livestock/wild animals, so those countries could expect another  gift  from their chinese neighbors.   theoretically it can be argued that china could have tackle  the proximity to livestock/wild animals  to avoid another pandemic.   is it possible for a country to ask for compensation over a pandemic started in another country. or a pandemic is assimilated to a naturally occurring event regardless of context   question: is it possible for a country to ask for compensation over damage done by sars-cov-2 epidemic that most likely started in china   answer first, let is address the biological point. china is not aresponsible  for this novel coronavirus or the pandemic it is generating. viruses are constantly mutating, and all it takes to begin an epidemic is for one person to encounter one animal that has a mutated strain of a virus, a strain which can jump species and start transmitting itself human to human. humans are social creatures  they will have social contact and pass the strain on to others. of course, being in a densely packed region with exposure to livestock increases the odds of that kind of encounter and maximizes the rate of transmission -- lots of people nearby to infect, so the disease does not have to work its way outward -- but that is a condition of poverty as much as anything else. people living on marginal incomes will pack together and bring their livestock with them, because they cannot afford the luxuries of personal space or shipped-in food.  and frankly, while poverty exacerbates diseases, it does not create them. the next pandemic could just as easily start because some well-to-do american on his country estate gets shat on by an infected bird. novel infections are a natural phenomenon. we are not immune to the workings of nature  despite our pretensions  so epidemics will happen on a rare but regular basis. blaming a particular region for a pandemic is like blaming your neighbor because you got crabgrass in your lawn. crabgrass does not know, or care, whose lawn it is.  this  neighbor  example is a good analogy for the problem this question faces. currently, all states are treated as sovereign, like a neighborhood of houses in which each homeowner has absolute say over what he gets to do with his house and yard. there is no overarching governance: no courts, no police, no administrators, no higher authority to appeal to, to force a neighbor to do this or that on his property. the un is like a town hall in which people come together to argue and make resolutions, but it has no real teeth except as individual sovereigns agree to abide by its decisions. this leaves only a few options on the table:   shrug and ignore what other sovereign homeowners do on their own turf, implicitly accepting the bad things that might float over the fence into one is own yard  i.e., the status quo . try to create agreements that commit all parties to certain kinds of behavior  i.e. pacts and treaties : a slow and difficult process to begin with, and one that any sovereign can back out of at any convenient-for-them time. restrict the ability of particular sovereign homeowners to interact with the community, in the hopes that deprivation will force them into compliance  i.e., sanctions, embargoes, etc. . create independent, unaligned groups that ask permission to enter another is sovereign territory to solve particular problems before they spread  i.e, ngo is and such . note that sovereign homeowners are under no obligation to allow such groups access, and can interfere with such groups  work in any way they desire. force your way onto another is sovereign territory to solve the problem against that sovereign is will  i.e., war .   so long as we maintain the decrepit ideal of sovereign nations, there is not much we can do to prevent the spread of a disease through a nation and across its borders. there is nothing at all we can do to prevent the birth of a novel disease. and unless we are willing to address underlying social issues like poverty and overpopulation, we are as much to blame as anyone else for pandemics of this sort, so there is no point in trying to collect  compensation  for some imagined wrongdoing we project onto others. 	
how did it start  answer the virus is one of the few that can be transmitted from animals to humans. it is believed to have originated in bats, which perhaps infected live animals and seafood sold at a  wet market  in wuhan, a crowded, not so sanitary dense marketplace. bats are also hosts for ebola, hiv, and rabies.  the first person who contracted the virus on december 1, 2019, had no connection to the outdoor market, making it unclear how he contracted it in the first place.   others who shopped there came down with viral pneumonia from covid-19.	
is it safe to bake a friend cake for her birthday send it to her  - samantha answer it is hard to not be able to see our friends and family in person, especially on special occasions, so sending a gift shows we are thinking of them. there is no evidence of covid-19 being transmitted through food, and thorough cooking will kill the virus. the uk food standards agency website has advice on food safety. if you are not displaying coronavirus symptoms, make sure you wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before you start baking. if you are showing symptoms of the virus - or have been in contact with someone who has - then it is probably not a good idea to prepare food for somebody else. that is because coronavirus spreads through small droplets - packed with the virus - expelled by a sufferer if they cough or sneeze. these can cause an infection if they are breathed in, or if someone touches a surface on which they have landed. while the chance of contracting coronavirus through food delivery is low, it does exist. the tin or box the cake is placed in probably presents a higher risk than the cake itself, so your friend should rinse the packaging when she receives the cake. if you are dropping the cake off yourself, you should maintain social distancing by ensuring you stay 2m  6ft  apart from each other.	
i am asking this question because i believe it would be great if the statistics community could make a contribution to solving this serious puzzle until more evidence is available.   the uk royal office of obstetricians and gynecologists publishes guidelines on neonatal and prenatal treatment of corona positive women and babies of corona positive women. there is insufficient evidence to give an advice whether breastfeeding is safe in the sense of not passing virus from mother to child via the mother milk. there are other infection ways but mother milk could be expressed and fed while keeping distance, e.g. by father.  a source is quoted in the guidelines  p. 27  that 6 chinese women is breast milk was tested corona negative  that is, six of out six samples were negative. if we consider these tests independent events, where the event is to sample a woman who passes the virus via the mothermilk, we have a binomial trial.  which confidence or credibility statements can we make about the probability to pass on the virus to the mother milk  this probability is estimated at zero in this trial, of course.   some statements can be made  for example if the probability was 0.50 the likelihood of the data would be 0.015. if it approaches 0, the likelihood approaches 1, but it is not differentiable at zero, so standard likelihood inference fails.  please note: the same guidelines advise in section 4.8.2 to continue breastfeeding by covid-19 positive women:   in the light of the current evidence, we advise that the benefits of breastfeeding outweigh any potential risks of transmission of the virus through breastmilk. the risks and benefits of breastfeeding, including the risk of holding the baby in close proximity to the mother, should be discussed with her.   p. 27   answer there is the rule of three saying     if a certain event did not occur in a sample with  n  subjects, the interval from  0  to  3/n  is a 95  confidence interval for the rate of occurrences in the population.   you have  n 6 , so says   0, 3/6 0.5   is a 95  confidence interval for the binomial  p  of transmission. in non-technical language: 6 non-events is way too few for any strong conclusions. this data is interesting, suggesting something, but no more.  this rule of three is discussed at cv multiple times is rule of three inappropriate in some cases , when to use  and not use  the rule of three, using rule of three to obtain confidence interval for a binomial population and certainly more ... a more principled approach is here: confidence interval around binomial estimate of 0 or 1 and using code from an answer to that question:  binom::binom.confint 0, 6, method c  wilson ,  bayes ,  agresti-coull  , type  central     method x n mean lower upper 1 agresti-coull 0 6 0.00000000 -0.05244649 0.4427808 2 bayes 0 6 0.07142857 0.00000000 0.2641729 3 wilson 0 6 0.00000000 0.00000000 0.3903343  	
are smokers and tobacco users at higher risk of covid-19 infection  answer smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to covid-19 as the act of smoking means that fingers  and possibly contaminated cigarettes  are in contact with lips which increases the possibility of transmission of virus from hand to mouth. smokers may also already have lung disease or reduced lung capacity which would greatly increase risk of serious illness.smoking products such as water pipes often involve the sharing of mouth pieces and hoses, which could facilitate the transmission of covid-19 in communal and social settings.conditions that increase oxygen needs or reduce the ability of the body to use it properly will put patients at higher risk of serious lung conditions such as pneumonia.	
i read on http://www.20minutes.fr/monde/2703219-20200125-coronavirus-troisieme-cas-confirme-france-15-nouveaux-deces-chine  mirror  that groupe psa is going to fly back their french expat employees located at wuhan back to france due to the novel coronavirus  2019-ncov  epidemic. how can groupe psa do so despite the ongoing quarantine in wuhan  mirror    answer the chinese goverment are giving special permissions for companies and countries who wishes to evacuate their people / citizens from affected areas.  they will have to be screened of course before being allowed to leave but once cleared and special transport is arranged they are free to leave.  no normal commercial transport is available however so it is chartered planes only at that point from wuhan. 	
the last days  begining of march 2020  active cases of coronavirus from china dropped in a rate of 1,000-2,000 per day. china is the only country which is being able to reduce the amount of active cases, assuming the information which is coming from china is true.   is there any identified policy china is doing to succesfully reduce coronavirus cases, the other countries arent using   answer containment  the most important factor is containment:   in the epicenter 60 million people were locked down. so if you can not leave your home you can not infect others nor get infected by others. across the country 780 million people were under travel restrictions. some areas only one family member is allowed to leave the home every 2 days to get supplies. community committees  non existent in most other countries  deliver food and check on condition of those locked down.   today china is changing into  targeted containment  where certain cities with no new cases for five days still have borders closed but allow citizens to now move freely within city borders.  some other considerations:   china is very nimble in setting up a 1,000 bed hospital in a week  16 were setup i believe . china was quick to develop a 15 minute test kit for novel coronavirus 2. this allows infected people to be quickly separated and allows those not infected to continue without undue fear or restrictions on work, school or family relations. by comparison us refused  for a week  to test people in a deadly infected washington state nursing home where at least 50 staff in inmates, um er residents, are showing symptoms. ct scans. when labs could no longer keep up to number of test samples, hospitals in china resorted to cat scans of the lungs as reported february 13th. there have been no reports in the media if us hospitals have ct scanning machines that doctors know how to read to classify a patient as  presumptive positive . there was mild upheaval when china included ct scan cases in their daily reports.     what  we  started doing march 8, 2020 similar to china  you do not say who  we  are but i presume it is eu / north america. from that point of view italy has just implemented a policy a little less strict than china today. the daily link contents will change tomorrow so i will include march 8, 2020  gmt  link contents here:    italy emergency measures    16 days after the beginning of the outbreak, the italian government  took decree today to take exceptional measures to contain about 16  million italians living in 14 provinces in the north of the country,  as well as restrictive measures covering the whole country.  source     northern italy under lockdown     ... snip original march 8, 2020 post shortened on march 12, 2020...       sports competitions are suspended with some exceptions     had the national restrictions been implimented a fortnight ago the lockdown may have been less severe today  march 8, 2020 .   also note like china, italy has been using the 15 minute test kit presumably backed up by the two to five day lab testing which they say is more accurate.    march 9, 2020 update  today italy expanded the  lockdown  to the entire nation of 60 million people. still it is not as targeted a restriction as china implemented against wuhan and the province it was in  circles of protection like linux kernel and user space tools .  today israel announced all people coming into the country must undergo 14 day quarantine. this would include all americans who historically have been the biggest supporters and creators of israel.  note israel is actions go above and beyond the steps china has taken. it more akin to the steps some regions took during the spanish flu of 1918. sorry direct link not available i recall researching this a few days / week ago.  although israel is using a stronger tactic than which china took two things have to be considered:   people were not swarming to get to china in february 2020 with usa declaring it persona non-grata in nation terms.  benjamin netenyahu is facing american style impeachment and might be using people and this growing pandemic as a  human shield  of sorts from his personal problems.   i think the 15 minute field test kit which takes blood sample was what made china successful but only they can answer that and the msm i have access to is not asking those questions to seek answers. currently schools are closing down in usa and other western countries because someone came back from an infected country without giving them a 15 minute field blood test first.    march 10, 2020 update  correction to yesterday  i read in haeratz  sp   newspaper online today that netenyahu exempted israeli is returning from america from the 14 day quarantine. i do not believe any science backs up the fact returning from a special mission to america exempts one from the coronavirus.  lab tests can fail too  alarmingly in japan someone infected on the princess cruise ship and then cleared for release was still infected because 15 minute blood test was not done, just the swab lab test. note the link is only valid for 24 hours then you have to scroll to march 10:    china developed the 15 minute field test kit on january 31, 2020 and an american company claims to have developed the same 15 minute field test kit. both are banned by the american cdc though because it measures those who have antibodies fighting the coronavirus  stage 1  and antibodies that have defeated the coronavirus  stage 2 . it does not test for the coronavirus itself.  if you know who has defeated the coronavirus and have antibodies they are the safest people to have assisting the at risk segment of the population. china nor any other country has said they are doing this though.  screening everyone crossing the land/air/sea border with a 15 minute test would go a long way to slowing down the virus spread. i hope the reason for not using the 15 minute test is not because there is not enough profit in it for labs. remember to date  our  labs have mostly test people who do not have the virus. with the 15 minute test kit they would be testing people who 90  odds do have the virus.  new rochelle new york state takes a page from china is play book  tomorrow the army is moving into new york according to aljazeera tv to seal off the city and not let anyone leave. plus they will distribute food to those in quarantine which mimics what china is community committees were doing as posted earlier.  this disease for america and eu is unique in that the  jet-setters  / wealthy like the rich northern region of italy  initial ground zero  are the global spreaders of the disease  besides local transmission which takes of a week or two later .  the downfall of this lockdown in new york state is it is announced two days before it takes effect giving infected people time to flee and infect others. had those fleeing been tested it would have mitigated / reduced the chances of virus spread.  to mask or not to mask that is the question.  coronavirus: put a surgical mask on, hong kong welfare chief law chi-kwong told  a survey of nurses in america recently revealed many of them were never trained on how to put on ppe yet this is construction worker safety 101  at least it was when i was working in construction and not warehousing .  green/yellow/red barcodes  china is using colour coded identification for people in wuhan  ground zero  according to aljazeera just now. green   good to go, yellow   warning, red   no go. the government controls colour code assignments it was not reported how the colour codes are derived but it might be beneficial for other nations  red-tape departments to learn.    march 11, 2020 update  today italy changed the lock-down to a shutdown:    italy closes all commercial activities, offices, cafes, shops. only  transportation, pharmacies, groceries will remain open   this sounds a lot like what china did for wuhan and surrounding area.  today the who  world health organization  declared the new coronavirus  circa 2019  a global pandemic in hopes it will spur  our  governments to take more aggressive measures to contain the virus. in other words to be more like china which is what the op is asking above.  usa announces all flights from europe will be cancelled  effective friday march 13th the usa will ban all flights from europe. the more important thing would be to track down all people who arrived from europe over the last 14 days and test them. flights from uk are still allowed but no word if chunnel will be closed. uk has not announced a vote for cvexit.    march 12, 2020 update  canada is prime minister  the wife of the prime minister of canada is suspected of being infected from in the united kingdom on a speaking engagement  a high risk adventure imo :    in a press release on thursday, the prime minister is office said she  has received a test for the new coronavirus after her symptoms emerged  last night following her return from a trip to the u.k., where she had  been doing speaking engagements.    while the prime minister has no symptoms, he is self-isolating until  her test results are back.     the doctor is advice to the prime minister is to continue daily  activities while self-monitoring, given he is exhibiting no symptoms  himself. however, out of an abundance of caution, the prime minister  is opting to self-isolate and work from home until receiving sophie is  results,  the release said.   the prime minister is doctor gave the wrong advise. at my workplace yesterday they announced a coworker was being tested  4 days for results  and is self isolate because his wife works with a doctor who had tested positive. so we have two health  professionals  the one in ottawa canada playing fast  amp  loose, the one in edmonton canada erring on the side of caution.  everyone at work is worrying now. i wish we had the 15 minute field test kit so we can quickly separate the  suspected wheat  from the  suspected chaff . the good news is unlike the usa we can do tests on possible cases here in edmonton canada. tom hanks is also thankful today he could be tested in positive australia and was not in the usa would they would refuse to test him.  china is a surveillance state which can control social media and msm for sure. canada and usa could utilize the anti-terrorism network built a decade ago including no-fly lists and turn it into a  anti-coronavirus  network. another example of what  we  could be doing more like china using existing computer databases and surveillance tracking resources.  what alberta announced today  edmonton -- as part of a new aggressive measure to fight the coronavirus pandemic, alberta is cancelling all large gatherings and advising against international travel. furthermore the link states:    the province is advising albertans against travelling  internationally.     given the rapid spread of this virus, it is no longer possible to  assess health risks for the duration of the trip,  hinshaw said.    she is also recommending all albertans currently outside of canada to  self-isolate for 14 days after their trip.    hinshaw said the risk of contracting coronavirus in alberta has not  changed in the past 24 hours, but is concerned that international  travellers will continue to bring the disease into the province.   with only 23 confirmed cases alberta is taking early steps to contain the virus without overreacting. the next steps  if cases increase  would be to close beauty parlours, bars and restaurants but i am biased as i never frequent such establishments. also i would stop sending fire fighters to non-essential traffic accidents and paramedic responses to save them for well, fighting fires. random thought would be for alberta to have disposable surgical gloves at self-serve gas stations for patrons to don before grasping the nozzle to fill up the tank.  another possible step would be to begin skype  tvoip  talks with canadian military which has a base close to edmonton with feasibility of  drafting  canadian troops living there. the purpose is for embedding troops with edmonton peace officers and edmonton police in a combined  counter-coronavirus-force  under a central command and control.  why troops  it was what my first bus driver after work  i take four buses home after work and am concerned they will shut down in two to three weeks and i will have to buy a bicycle  said today:  i hope the banks do not run out of money. this led to a long explanation about fractional reserve banking, gold standard, four federal reserve central banks going bankrupt, currency generated digitally and how not enough real money exists. anyway more fire power is preferable to not enough when you need it. besides even if heavy weaponry is not needed you can always call it a drill and lets face it nato military does not see much  action  anyway and will enjoy the  call to arms  if nothing else.  staying on topic, there are no reports i have read that china took these steps and used the military but i  imagine  they would have.    march 14, 2020 update  getting downvotes so might have to end these  save the world who does not care q amp a  updates.  today italy announced:    italy is health system is overwhelmed:       we are close to the point of no return for intensive care beds in lombardy. we have 15 to 20 intensive care beds left. with 85 new  people entering icu every day and 2 or 3 leaving, we are close to the  point of no return.  there are no more ambulances  - lombardy welfare  councilor gallera added -  and therefore someone will have to wait  late in the evening.   source  732 patients are currently treated in  intensive care in lombardy, and 76 new deaths were reported in the  region today.  in bergamo,  deaths have quintupled from a week ago. there is a burial every half hour  said councilor for cemetery services giacomo  angeloni.  there are many elderly people at home with breathing  difficulties. they are not hospitalized because the hospitals are  full  said the mayor of alzano lombardo carmelo bertocchi.     what would china do   hard to say their society is different. what should italy do  easier to say if they are like canada.  temporarily suspend medical laws. commandeer white crew cab pickup trucks from dealers at cost plus twenty. paint red crosses on left and right. staff with four able-bodied young men. put a mattress in the box.  take that 80 person call center designed to rip off seniors with calls to support the fireman is burn unit and police feed the children fund. have them call people over 65 twice a day. if they do not answer send aforementioned four men in a pick up truck.  a week ago china would have build 1,000 bed hospitals that take a week to complete. nato countries should do the same a week before where italy is today. scrap white collar surveyors, architects and engineers. send in the blue collar labourers, concrete finishers, electricians, plumbers, skid steer operators, truck drivers, crane operators, foremen and carpenters with blue prints that china used.  spain is lockdown today should have exempted warehousing and transportation of food and drugs workers. they will think of that tomorrow.  president trump is test announced today seems like  fake news  if the test only works when upper respiratory tract is infected when a nasal swab is taken. however the kind of test taken was not announced.  china web guru is donated 500,000 test kits to usa today. no word if 100 labs and 1,000 lab workers are included to analyze test results...  i visited the world is second largest mall today. i noticed the indoor hockey rink was closed  like the nhl  i could fix that in a week i think   and replaced with a bead trinket / fake rock sales flea market. one vendor had a dry cough and another was wearing surgical gloves.  there was a sign outside the bathroom hallway from alberta health advising people how to wash hands. at galaxy land i saw a few amusement ride employees cleaning surfaces. so if they close all the schools here they end up in galaxy land   schools should stay open because teachers know their students better than a random ride attendant. however reinstate the old days where students queue when the first bell rings. then forehead point and shoot temperature checks will be done.  allergy season is arriving and probably 10  of the population is effected with running nose and sneezing. they should get a card or something to alleviate the fears of others on the bus or airplane.  people under 30 getting and recovering from bsc should be verified and coveted. being over 50 i am not really scared but i am worried i will infect that elderly man hobbling down the street today at -20c with his cane. my bus may be no safer for him than ets dats. which reminds me should not they be cleaning the buses here   callous individuals surround us and say  they are old  lets kill them all with the virus. forward thinkers will realize they will be old too someday. what would china do  i think they would  respect their elders .  gee jing ping  xi jingping  wore a mask and sat meters away from other officials when he announced wuhan  think washington dc  and wubie province  think washington state  had overcome the virus  we do not know that is true yet .  on the other hand trump and officials wore no ppe and all touched the mic in some sort of  speaking is more important than reality  press conference yesterday  friday the 13th .  if someone on the bus wears a mask do not freak out. they may be trying to protect you or chances are they are just scared. do not pick on them.  i have no idea if all of this transpired in china but their culture is different than nato is and we must adapt because the end results are what count. life, liberty and freedom can be mutually exclusive. for a few months you will have to give up freedom to save life. china did do that and appears to have succeeded today. what will history say about you     march 16, 2020 update  today canada announced closing borders to all foreign nationals except us citizens. what would china do    about two weeks ago the border to washington state would have been sealed off. because people there flow into b.c. the alberta / bc border would have been sealed off.   what to do today to mimic china    100 million people live beside the us / canada border. they like to make day trips to mimic currency arbitrage and buy goods cheaper in other country. this traffic should be shut down. canadian health care is free, americans in past have utilized that system, that should be shut down. everyone crossing border by land should be subject to 5 second forehead temperature check with  60 gun. those with fever must seek medical attention. some border crossing like edmundston new brunswick and madawaska, me, united states are like their own little country. they can manage their own laws and have to worry about keeping outsiders out of both towns.   china succeeded at first locking down wuhan city and then hubie province. italy tried that and failed. canada / us appears headed for even bigger failure thinking it will save the economy. perhaps it will in the short term but more long term planning is still needed:   airlines will ask for bailouts. tell them to go bankrupt and create new startups in a couple of years. edmonton schools are closing for six months. send teachers out to work for four months even if it is sanitizing buses. after all you are making parents leave work to child care and still expect them to pay 12 months of school taxes right  it is proposed to pay people unemployment.  800 every two weeks might be fine for 80  of the population but an airline pilot can not live on that if his mortgage and car payments are more than that per month. do not give the money to company ceos that lay off all the workers in order to support stock price. accept the fact great depression can be approaching and learn from those mistakes. people to plan to fail, they fail to plan - like with usa test kits. communism at  20/hour is better than capitalism with chance for  200/hr. when reality is  0/hr. no word if china will revert back to communism but their journey is shorter than canada is would be and especially america is. my bus driver was in a state of shock an hour ago as she was told tomorrow buses would be running on saturday schedule which means that bus would not be running. the city bus website had no information on this. do not make such knee-jerk reactions wait a week even if buses are 25  of capacity before making such announcements. city of edmonton website said one employee returning from vacation tested positive but it was not related to recreational facility or other services closing today. makes me think it is swimming pool and wonders why they refuse to say  border closing by canada and saying 14 self-isolation for all arriving  except us citizens who are immune to sars 2.0 apparently  me they are math challenged. worldometers.com states some claim incubation period of 2 to 14 days with 5.2 days mean time which is what they are getting 14 from. others say 0 to 28 days but that is not the point. they should have said if you are arrived from italy, egypt, france, germany, washington state, cruise ship or blah blah 13 days ago then self isolate for 1 day, if 12 days ago then self isolate for 2 days, etc etc up to today arrivals isolate for 14 days. no mention if doctors will be trained how to read ct scan of lungs. no mention if blood test to measure sars 2.0 anti-bodies will be done. criminal negligence almost not learning what china learned and shared with the world. also consider giving bus drivers temperature guns so i can get my temperature checked twice a day too and self-isolate if necessary. then call dispatch for mini-bus making circles picking feverish people up to pick them up. travel by planes offer and border crossings offer great chances to take 5 second temperature check but you need to think out of the box sometimes. research a few weeks ago revealed only 100 icu beds in edmonton and ventilators can not be ordered over night but temperature guns can be ordered over night... they warned us weeks ago to get 14 day supply and i did. today doug ford of ontario told people to stop buying and  hoarding . make up your mind...   final thoughts for what china would do   they would lift sanctions against the people of syria and iran who suffered enough already in usa bid to cause social unrest due to mass human suffering.  indeed sanctions against iran and syria in the first place, china would have voted down if such a measure was introduced in the united nations security council. we can only imagine how decapitated the hospitals in northern parts of syria are now with white helmets running amok to make oscar award winning videos backed by the guns of isis. witnessing the lies of test kits and extrapolating to other lies like white helmets things begin to make sense. would you like a cup of karma with your reality check   crisis can be an opportunity for change and we can watch how china handles it and hopefully treat them as a three month indication to the future of covidi-9.  rt reported that china sent medical experts and supplies to italy after the eu denied support.  edmonton closed schools today but high school kids were still traveling in buses and associating in groups. it does little good to close schools and still allow kids to associate. china locked down homes and anyone traveling had to produce national id cards. there are no national id cards in canada, my only cards are a debit card and library card  closed in edmonton as of today . i also carry a bus pass which might have limited value starting tomorrow...  op is valid question what did china do is almost totally ignored by the media here whilst usa tries to steal vaccines from other nations to make a fast buck for trump. lets make this clear if and when a vaccine is create dit belongs to bsc  bat sourced coronavirus  owner in china who gives it away to the world for free. no patents. no arguments. that said sars 1.0 vaccine was 13 years in the making before being scrapped in 2016. the world has to stop focusing on maybe is and deal with reality that changes by the hour and is unique to every region and the resources they have in play.  this reminds me of inventory control training at work where last week he had to reverse adjustments to stock so this week he has to do the same thing for a different sku. wrong. it is on a case by case basis and every case is different. open your universities 24/7 to develop a vaccine and analyze all those drive through test samples sure. closing them is about the worst thing you could have done with available resources...  where are the flight manifests of everyone who arrived from italy, germany and the netherlands over the last 30 days  were they given to the city of edmonton police  real judges have subpoena powers. it is great you closed bs family court with he-said she-said soap opera now lets get the real judges and real law enforcement working. politicians with silver spoons including trudeau  amp  trump have no idea of how the real world works.  china and korea  both republic and democratic sides  seem to have their act together. as does new zealand one of the  five eyes  which seems to have had their eye open. putin and netenyahu seem more concerned with political extensions. trump saw a picture of him photo-shopped image playing the violin and tweeted he likes it whilst completely oblivious to the reference  nero fiddled while rome burned . the media is devoting too much attention to politicians and not doing investigative journalism. four words  fifteen minute blood test. since you have ten fingers three more  border temperature checks.  what would china do   i imagine by now they would have tracked down all the people that have been to  life care   oxymoron  nursing home in washington usa and lynn valley nursing home in north vancouver, canada  been there seen that . no word on if usa and canada have done that yet     also no word from investigative journalists interviewing  health care professionals  on if they travel between nursing homes because they are  specialists    finally on saturday march 14, 2020 apple closed all it is stores outside of china and reopened them inside china. i visited west edmonton mall and sure enough the store was closed with 4 blue t-shirt clad employees outside closed doors and i said  so it is true   what tim cook said . investigative journalists be asking themselves what tech companies knew before their governments did. look how facebook and google closed down events a week or fortnight before your governments did. ask yourself the 5w is and sometimes how     march 17, 2020  happy st. patrick is day. plans to go out tonight got cancelled because alberta declared a state of emergency.  guy at work was sent home for coughing because  it is not safe . unemployment will cover a percentage of his wage if he gets tested positive for covid-19 but you can not see a doctor if you are coughing. viscous circle / catch 22.  usa announce 1 trillion in  juice  for the economy. i used my  big number calculator  and it tells me  1t / 300m    3k. that will tie an average person over for a month.  some or many people will be traumatized after a few months of cabin fever and never fly again, take a cruise again or trust a stranger again. a crime wave unknown in recent memory could sweep across nato countries of diversity.  hit 30k on this answer :  	
if a person tests positive for influenza, they are not tested for coronavirus. could a person have both  answer yes, a person could have both. this was the case for one patient in china, according to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention. the 69-year-old man in wuhan had both sars-cov-2 and influenza a virus. doctors initially diagnosed the man with the flu and later diagnosed the coronavirus.  doctors studying the patient said the case  suggests that covid-19 might be underdiagnosed because of false-negative tests for upper respiratory specimens or co-infection with other respiratory viruses. broader viral testing might be needed.   peter hotez, dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine, agrees.   i do not like that people are doing flu tests and saying therefore it is not coronavirus,  hotez said.  traditionally, for flu, we know it is possible to get other co-infectious with other viruses. 	
following the recent coronavirus outbreak, various mortality rates have been published.  most of these are simply the ratio between the deaths and the total verified cases, which is not a very accurate indicator as many of the verified cases are ongoing and could result in deaths.  i know some statistics from university but i am in no way an expert. i was wondering if there was any commonly used statistical model to predict with some accuracy the mortality rate of an ongoing epidemic. if there is, i am guessing some of the variables would be the time between the onsetting of symptoms and death/healing for resolved cases.  answer a natural  and perhaps naive  way to model mortality would be a binomial model, i.e.,     x  sim  text binomial  n, p      here  x  is the number of deaths,  n  is the total number of people infected, and  p  is the mortality rate, or the probability of dying given that you have the disease.  when we say something is distributed according to a binomial distribution, we mean that the observed counts  x  are the result of  n  independent trials, each with probability of  success   in this case, death   p . these are usually termed  bernoulli trials .  we can now examine the likelihood of  p  given  x  and  n  -- i.e., how likely it would be to see the data we have observed, given different values of  p . imagine we had 100 cases, 50 of which resulted in deaths:  n  lt - 100 x  lt - 50 s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbinom x, size   n, prob   s , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    binomial likelihood        this shows that a point estimate  the maximum likelihood estimate  would be 0.5, which of course makes sense. something important to consider here is the amount of data we have observed. since we have a good amount of observations, the likelihood is fairly narrow. this means that there is a relatively small range of values for  p  for which the data we observed would be likely to occur.  now, imagine if we had only 10 cases, 5 of which resulted in deaths:  x  lt - 5 n  lt - 10 s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbinom x, size   n, prob   s , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    binomial likelihood        when we do not have much information, the likelihood is quite broad, indicating that the data would be fairly likely for a wide range of values for  p .  it can be helpful in cases like this to incorporate a prior, or how likely we think different parameter values are, based on our existing knowledge. for example, imagine that we knew that the distribution of mortality rates across all known human diseases looked something like this:  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbeta s, 32, 64 , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    proportion of diseases        this is a beta prior with   alpha 32  and   beta 64 , i.e.,   p  sim  text beta  32, 64  . we might want to use this prior information to guide our inferences about the mortality rate of a new disease for which we have very little information. we can combine this prior information with the likelihoods we have already plotted. if you want details about how this is done, one great starting point is this blog by david robinson. basically, the posterior distribution over our parameters is a beta distribution. for parameters we take the   alpha  of our prior and add  x , and take the   beta  of our prior and add  n-x .  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  n  lt - 100 x  lt - 50 plot   s, dbeta s, shape1   32   x, shape2   64   n - x ,   type  l , xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    posterior density        as you can see, this prior information  pulls  our estimates downwards towards the distribution of existing mortality rates. however, if we had strong enough evidence  for example, thousands of infections and deaths  we could still produce an estimate outside of where the prior distribution is concentrated. when we have a small amount of data, a prior can be particularly helpful to avoid results that are purely the result of sampling noise - for example, imagine the first 10 people with a disease happen to die, and the next 90 survive. the estimate after 10 people would be 100 , which is extremely unlikely, given what we have seen about human disease in the past.  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  n  lt - 10 x  lt - 5 plot   s, dbeta s, shape1   32   x, shape2   64   n - x ,  type  l , xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    posterior density        when we have very little data, this prior information really shrinks our estimates towards what we believe is a reasonable estimate of mortality, given what we have observed in the past about other diseases.  you can continually update this posterior distribution as new data comes in by adding deaths to the   alpha  parameter and survivals to the   beta  parameter of the beta distribution.  this is all just general  i have no real expertise in disease modelling. none of the parameters values i have chosen have any basis in reality. 	
is it ethical to order delivery in a pandemic  answer it is a complicated question, right  officials are telling us to stay indoors and away from others. at the same time, you need food or, as importantly, medicine. but what about the health of the delivery workers who come to your door  how do we keep each other safe  for  older americans  http://www.cdc.gov/aging/emergency/pdf/sip-pan-flu- injects.pdf  and those with health problems who are most at risk if they contract the coronavirus, having goods delivered makes sense. some companies,  like postmates  http://blog.postmates.com/introducing-non-contact- deliveries-ac2f23462909  and  instacart  http://www.businessinsider.com/coronavirus-instacart-delivers- groceries-without-human-contact-2020-3 , have begun offering non-contact or curbside deliveries.  european companies  http://techcrunch.com/2020/03/12/europes-deliveroo-and-glovo- switch-on-contactless-delivery-during-covid-19-pandemic/  are doing it, too. those services have a large network in place, though, which means their businesses are likely to thrive. smaller retailers will not as americans eschew restaurants, bars and specialty stores. that is why some restaurants are promoting delivery services as a way to stay in business, and why some cities that have ordered restaurants and bars to close have made exceptions for places providing delivery and takeout. but what about delivery workers  some groups, like gig workers rising, are demanding that employers like doordash and instacart do more to protect them on the job. recently, the group started  a petition  http://www.coworker.org/petitions/demand-gig-economy-companies- give-paid-sick-time-off-during-coronavirus  asking companies to provide paid time off to drivers who become sick during the coronavirus outbreak and cannot work. the bottom line is this: online deliveries are a boon for those who cannot leave their homes, as well as small restaurants who fear going out of business. but at the same time it comes with a risk to drivers and delivery workers who fear the loss of income if they get sick. at a minimum, everyone should generously tip their drivers for the service.	
how did coronavirus start  answer it is thought the disease originated at an animal market in the city of wuhan in china, where it was transferred to a person. the world health organization  who  says:  covid-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 2019.  dr chris from operation ouch said:  as a species, human beings destroy ecosystems and we often farm animals in quite cruel, crowded conditions. and those two things expose us to really dangerous viruses from animals.  so, as a species, we all need to accept some responsibility and wake up to the fact we need to treat our planet better but, there is no one person or culture that we need to blame here. 	
can i get welfare  answer yes. 	
we planned a 3-week trip to japan in march, but because of the recent increase in infections over there, we started to wonder if it would not be smarter to cancel.  this is our travel plan:   06-03-2020: munich -  london -  tokyo 27-03-2020: tokyo -  london -  munich   we are mainly worried about two possibilities:   the airports shutting down, preventing us from getting back  my boss would not be too happy . ending up in quarantine because we have an infected person on the plane.   while there, we planned on staying mainly in the countryside anyways, so the risk of getting infected ourselves is rather low in my opinion.  answer this question is likely to get closed as opinion-based, but a few reference points:   unless things get positively apocalyptic, it is exceedingly unlikely that japan is airports would shut down completely. flights might be reduced, but as a comparison point, airports in china -- even in wuhan -- have kept operating throughout the crisis there. on the inbound flight, this would require an infected person coming from munich or london, which is statistically improbable. on the way back, this is a higher possibility, but still unlikely unless  again  there is a major outbreak.   fwiw, i was in tokyo last week, and while it is not exactly panic in the air, people are definitely taking precautions: temperature scans at the airport, more masks than usual, hand washing  amp  sanitizers, large gatherings cancelled, etc . this in itself seems likely to limit the spread of the virus, making full-blown contagion less likely. but at the end of the day it is your call. 	
can patients with suspected and confirmed ncov infection be cohorted in the same room  answer ideally, suspected and confirmed 2019-ncov acure respiratory disease patients should be isolated in single rooms. however, when this is not feasible  e.g., limited number of single rooms , cohorting is an acceptable option. some patients with suspected 2019-ncov infection may actually have other respiratory illnesses, hence they must be cohorted separately from patients with confirmed 2019-ncov infection. a minimum of 1-meter distance between beds should be maintained at all times.	
are immigrants eligible to receive the checks    answer they are if they have a social security number. a republican aide to the senate finance committee noted in a call with reporters wednesday that green card holders qualify for work-eligible social security numbers.	
should i worry about covid-19  answer illness due to covid-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. however, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. it is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the covid-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones. we can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. first and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings.	
will mosquitos be able to catch this virus and pass it on to humans this summer  answer no, hotez says. as far as we know, it is not a mosquito-transmitted virus.	
i read in this answer by lambshaanxy:    the philippines have also banned foreign visitors from countries with  local coronavirus transmission    where can i find the up-to-date list of countries with  local coronavirus transmission  that philippines banned foreign visitors from   answer hei according to this article, the philippines react to the list provided by the who. on the who website you can get this worldmap with the updated cases and countries. this website gives you also a realtime overview band is backed by dadax, an independent company with no political, governmental, or corporate affiliation.  have a nice day and i hope i matched your question. 	
how easy is it to catch the coronavirus  answer tom frieden, who directed the cdc for eight years during the obama administration, says it is too early to know exactly how transmissible the virus is, how long it lives on surfaces or how many people who get the disease become really sick.  there is still a lot we do not know about this infection. we do not know how readily it spreads, we do not know, really, what proportion of people get severely ill,  he told the hill. but what we do know is that the virus spreads from person to person through air droplets, much like an influenza. that makes it dissimilar from something more deadly, like ebola, which spreads only when someone comes into contact with another person is bodily fluids. there are signs, too, that the coronavirus can transmit even before someone shows symptoms, which is going to cause problems for health officials trying to contain its spread. now is a good opportunity to remind ourselves the lessons we teach toddlers: wash your hands a lot. cough or sneeze into your elbow. stay at home if you are sick. those little steps end up having big, positive consequences. anyone who comes into contact with someone infected with the virus should notify their health care provider, the cdc says. older people and young children, especially those with underlying health concerns, are at the most risk.	
how does it spread  answer it seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. the pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out.	
i am curious if there has ever been a  modern  clinical study where a healthy volunteer was purposefully infected with a pathogen in order to test the effectiveness of a therapeutic or preventative measure  like a vaccine    if not, would the fda allow for ethical exceptions in cases where there is an extreme case of urgency  like in a pandemic    obviously these would be willing volunteers who signed waivers, etc. so nazi experimentation, the tuskegee trial, and other studies without total consent from the participants would not qualify here.  edit: self-experimentation would not qualify here either because the bioethics of self-experimentation are different than testing on others.   answer one can not easily separate ethics from how biology is done, as much as some people have tried.  though i suppose some have made bioethics into a separate and successful media career, so it can be done in that way.   in addition to the comment-answer about the tuskegee study, nazi doctors in germany performed experiments without consent, which included infecting concentration camp prisoners with the bacteria that cause tuberculosis.  your question is about volunteerism, however, and the victims of the united states and nazi germany did not give full -- or any -- consent to experimentation.  in this week is issue of nature, there is a news article which interviews bioethicist nir eyal about a recent preprint, of which he is a primary author.   in this interview and in the preprint, your very question about coronavirus vaccine research, specifically, is discussed, as it concerns the matters of consent, ethics, and safety of doing accelerated biological research about this virus in a time of emergency.  in answer to your first question about modern clinical studies, dr. eyal notes:    are there any precedents for infecting healthy people with a pathogen     we do human-challenge studies for less deadly diseases quite frequently. for example, for influenza, typhoid, cholera and malaria. there are some historical precedents for exposure to very deadly viruses. the thing that demarcates the design that we propose from some of these historical instances is that we feel there is a way to make these trials surprisingly safe.   as an example, there was a challenge trial for malaria performed in 2012. healthy individuals were bitten by mosquitoes carrying the malaria parasite and then treated with antimalarial therapies.   clinical trials are done under the aegis of government agencies with review and approval processes, some of which are described on the fda web site. irbs or institutional review boards provide oversight:    under fda regulations, an irb is an appropriately constituted group that has been formally designated to review and monitor biomedical research involving human subjects. in accordance with fda regulations, an irb has the authority to approve, require modifications in  to secure approval , or disapprove research. this group review serves an important role in the protection of the rights and welfare of human research subjects.  	
at the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic, the world health organization initially opposed countries instituting travel or trade restrictions.    why did they oppose these policies at that time  is there any evidence that non-medical considerations such as political pressure played a role in the world health organization is decision   answer probably because prior who research was rather skeptical of their ultimate effectiveness:     screening and quarantining entering travelers at international borders did not substantially delay virus introduction in past pandemics, except in some island countries, and will likely be even less effective in the modern era.   that paper was co-authored  on behalf of the who  by employees of the  us  cdc  lead author actually , the ecdc, the uk is hpa, australian dha, and some of who is own employees. so you could say it was a fairly broad consensus at the time it was written  2006 .  the who has actually explained/defended their reasoning in relation to the covid-19 outbreak in more detail in a february press release:    who continues to advise against the application of travel or trade restrictions to countries experiencing covid-19 outbreaks.    in general, evidence shows that restricting the movement of people and goods during public health emergencies is ineffective in most situations and may divert resources from other interventions. furthermore, restrictions may interrupt needed aid and technical support, may disrupt businesses, and may have negative social and economic effects on the affected countries. however, in certain circumstances, measures that restrict the movement of people may prove temporarily useful, such as in settings with few international connections and limited response capacities.    travel measures that significantly interfere with international traffic may only be justified at the beginning of an outbreak, as they may allow countries to gain time, even if only a few days, to rapidly implement effective preparedness measures. such restrictions must be based on a careful risk assessment, be proportionate to the public health risk, be short in duration, and be reconsidered regularly as the situation evolves.    travel bans to affected areas or denial of entry to passengers coming from affected areas are usually not effective in preventing the importation of cases but may have a significant economic and social impact. since who declaration of a public health emergency of international concern in relation to covid-19, and as of 27 february, 38 countries have reported to who additional health measures that significantly interfere with international traffic in relation to travel to and from china or other countries, ranging from denial of entry of passengers, visa restrictions or quarantine for returning travellers. several countries that denied entry of travellers or who have suspended the flights to and from china or other affected countries, are now reporting cases of covid-19.    temperature screening alone, at exit or entry, is not an effective way to stop international spread, since infected individuals may be in incubation period, may not express apparent symptoms early on in the course of the disease, or may dissimulate fever through the use of antipyretics  in addition, such measures require substantial investments for what may bear little benefits.  ...    i have not found more recent press releases on this matter, especially after the us and the eu have imposed much more wider travel bans. i do wonder the extent to which the who might have reconsidered that initial approach...  aside, comment on the question... i wonder why you found it necessary to use  that guy from india  as the motivator for this question when  in the us  a poll published on march 26 says...    in thinking about specific steps that have been announced to address the coronavirus outbreak, majorities of republicans and democrats view a range of measures as necessary to stem the spread of the virus. for example, overwhelming majorities of both republicans  96   and democrats  94   say restricting international travel to the u.s. is necessary.  	
i am an organizer for a graduate student conference in mathematics occurring in april. my co-organizers and i are debating on a plan for what to do if the covid-19 outbreak in the united states worsens. right now, most of the participants are from states with no confirmed cases of the coronavirus, but this may change rapidly as the situation develops between now and the conference.  this is an issue other conferences throughout history have surely had to deal with, so i wanted to ask stackexchange if there were any best practices around for dealing with an issue like this. some questions:   how far out should the go/no go decision be made  if the conference is late april, should we be planning to let participants and speakers know by early april so they can cancel flights and so on  what criteria should best inform whether we cancel or not  number of cases in the participants  states for instance  in the event we are to cancel the conference, how can we still give the speakers a chance to advertise their results  have there been successful  video conferences  before where the organizers collect video for each talk and then upload them and participants can make comments     answer regarding remote conferences, these have been successful. often the motivating factor has been mitigating climate impact. for example, yale climate connections wrote an article giving advice for running virtual conferences. author sara peach presents three kinds of virtual conferencing, all of which have been done successfully:    remote presentations in a traditional conference format. if people choose to not travel, they can still remote in or follow the session on social media.  example: agu  hub-based conference, where people gather in regional clusters. each hub has some of its own content but are able to watch each other is presentations.  example: international conference on music perception and cognition  an entirely remote conference, where people record and upload videos of presentations and conferencegoers have weeks to ask questions and interact.  example: a nearly carbon-neutral conference model    i will add that an entirely virtual synchronous conference has also been done successfully. one example is nacada, the global community for academic advising, which ran a 24-hour live-streaming virtual conference.   the mixed-conference or hub models may or may not be feasible, since they would still involve people gathering in some models, and you are not sure yet whether that will be feasible on any scale. also, developing regional hubs would take time you do not have. thus, if you decide to go entirely virtual, a synchronous-with-live-streaming conference and a asynchronous recorded approach have been done, and the resources linked should provide a way to start researching or planning that model. i also advise contacting your own it department about the possibility.  	
what chemical product should i use to disinfect surfaces that may get in contact with the food   wooden table where i knead bread/pasta and etc   with this covid-19 frenzy it is impossible to find alcohol  what i usually use for cleaning  so my wife bough a bunch of clorox desinfecting wipes. i was wondering if it is safe to use it  answer this is honestly a huge topic, with literally reams of government guidelines on what is effective for surface disinfection. for example:   usda clean then sanitize fsis cleaning regulations 5 steps of cleaning and disinfection   so partly this depends on how sanitized you want things to be. for my part, i just clean my counters with a mixture of simple green  a concentrated organic soap  and water. if you are really concerned, you could do a second washing with a weak bleach solution  wear gloves  . 	
i requested a b-2 visa extension on september for my mother, she has to stay until may 14, so she is already 1 year in usa as a visitor, but due to covid-19 i am worry about her health, she is 74 years old, with dementia and diabetes my father is the one who takes care for her, he is citizen. is possible to get a new extension while everything is safe here or in our country   answer to answer your question, yes, there is no limit to the number of times status can be extended during one stay  note that it is the status that is extended  visas cannot be extended, since visas are only for entry anyway , and it is possible to apply for another b2 extension of status before the current extended status expires. of course, the chances of approval of an extension of status goes down with each additional extension. the fact that she has a us citizen spouse in the us also may make it likely that she will be denied for immigrant intent. but at least an application for extension of status  filed before her status expires  will allow her to stay while the application is pending, which can be several months, so it will buy her more time.  as some comments have noted, if she intends to keep staying in the us, it would be better for her to not apply for extension of status, and instead apply for adjustment of status to get a green card in the us through a petition from her spouse. 	
i am looking for a maintained and updated data feed that has the times of all confirmed cases of covid 19 and their geo coordinates. thanks.  answer http://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6    we are tracking the covid-19 spread in real-time on our interactive dashboard with data available for download. we are also modeling the spread of the virus. preliminary study results are discussed on our blog.   this is by the john hopkins university. 	
     i was waiting with bated breath for the cdc update on cases of covid-19 in the u.s. by date of onset. to my eyes this looks like absolutely wonderful news - that it means that the exponential growth of the virus has been  flattened  - but i am still afraid i may be misinterpreting what i see. it bothers me that the headline for the graph has not changed. but it appears that the number of new cases stopped increasing after 3/3. am i missing something   top: before noon on 3/16, bottom: after noon on 3/16. data from http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/cases-in-us.html  note: in today is update  the first in three days  the cdc page shows the number of cases with onset on 3/4 to be 159, and 3/9 is 307. this doubled in five days rather than every two or three as other numbers would suggest, but given the dramatic changes in this curve, and their overall direction, i think the top answer below has been vindicated.  answer the information you show is meaningless unless it is also accompanied by the number of tests performed. if the cdc tested 2 people and got two positive results, that does not tell us anything at all about the actual rate of infection. and, indeed, the cdc has been testing a shockingly low number of cases:         data during this period are incomplete because of the lag in time between when specimens are accessioned, testing is performed, and results are reported.    image source   the last day they give data for, 2020-03-15, includes 0 samples from the cdc and 4 samples from other public health labs. since only 4 samples are represented in the chart, of course we see a drop in cases, but that is because they are based on only 4 tests. as more tests for those dates and subsequent dates are reported, the numbers will change.  date collected cdc labs us public health labs 3/12 75   2302   3/13 0   1511   3/14 0   165   3/15 0   4     as you can see in the table above  from the same source as the graph , the past few days have seen almost no tests are being included in this analysis either from the cdc or elsewhere, so any drop in cases is completely meaningless.  	
is it safe to receive a package from any area where covid-19 has been reported  answer yes. the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes covid-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low.	
people are concerned about the economic impacts of the virus. how severe will the economic downturn be  will the coronavirus cause a global recession worse than the 2008 crisis  i am not looking here for speculative answers, but references with a solid economic background. for example, i found these:   flattening the pandemic and recession curves, march 13 2020, by pierre-olivier gourinchas, berkeley. economics in the time of covid-19, by vox cepr.   any other  academic  references     economics podcasts are also welcome. i found those:   russ roberts and tyler cowen on covid-19 the side effects of social distancing by freakeconomics and a bunch of recent episodes by planet money.     update.  some nice references on following the economic impact of covid-19 by stanford  siepr  experts.  answer with the right keywords  and author searches  from earlier papers, i actually found some academic output already  this might not be peer-reviewed yet, i.e. preprints:   mckibbin and fernando  2 march 2020  the global macroeconomic impacts of covid-19: seven scenarios    examines the impacts of different scenarios on macroeconomic outcomes and  financial markets in a global hybrid dsge/cge general equilibrium model.  the scenarios in this paper demonstrate that even a contained outbreak could significantly  impact the global economy in the short run.  ...   these results are very sensitive to the assumptions in the model, to the shocks we feed in and  to the assumed macroeconomic policy responses in each country.  and that is already cited by wang et al. covid-19 is impact on china is economy based on data of spring festival travel rush    this paper starts with the analysis of the daily railway passenger volume data during the spring festival travel rush, and establishes three time series to model the railway passenger volume, gdp in the first quarter model, and gdp in the last three quarters respectively. the forecast results indicate that:  a  affected by the epidemic, china is economy will lose 4.8 trillion yuan in the first quarter of 2020, which is an expected decrease of 20.69  and a year-on-year drop of 15.60    b  china is expected gdp growth rate for the full year of 2020 will reduce from 6.50  to 1.72 . however, there are some positive factors not taken into account in these models, which means that the forecast results may be underestimated. with the global spread of the epidemic, the instability of the world economy will in turn impact china is economy.  a more recent  march 30  paper, greenstone and nigam that emphasizes/quantifies the benefits of the lockdowns, in the us:    using the ferguson et al.  2020  simulation model of covid-19 is spread and mortality impacts in the united states, we project that 3-4 months of moderate distancing beginning in late march 2020 would save 1.7 million lives by october 1. of the lives saved, 630,000 are due to avoided overwhelming of hospital intensive care units. using the projected age-specific reductions in death and age-varying estimates of the united states government is value of a statistical life, we find that the mortality benefits of social distancing are about   8 trillion or  60,000 per us household. roughly 90  of the monetized benefits are projected to accrue to people age 50 or older. overall, the analysis suggests that social distancing initiatives and policies in response to the covid-19 epidemic have substantial economic benefits.      jp morgan has put out some estimates already, although they do not detail their methodology as much as a peer-reviewed publication would  have to .    the u.s. economy is projected to contract by 14  in the second quarter, after experiencing a 4  contraction in the first quarter, before recovering to 8  and 4  growth in the third and fourth quarters. euro area gdp will suffer an even deeper contraction, with double-digit declines of 15  and 22  in the first and second quarters, before rebounding by 45  and 3.5  in the third and fourth quarters.     there is no longer doubt that the longest global expansion on record will end this quarter. we now think that the covid-19 shock will produce a global recession, as nearly all of the world contracts over the three months between february and april,  said bruce kasman, chief economist at j.p. morgan. initially, the expectation was the novel-recession may generate limited labor market damage, but j.p. morgan research is now forecasting the unemployment rate for developed markets as a whole will rise 1.6 percentage points in the next two quarters.     the rise in unemployment will be sharper in the u.s. than in the euro area. most immediately, u.s. initial jobless claims should spike above 400,000 in the coming weeks,  said michael feroli, chief u.s. economist at j.p. morgan.   mckinsey has a somewhat spread-out  march 25  presentation, but a couple of slides with their scenarios/estimates i could fish from there:     likewise, pwc has a march  white paper mostly focused on australia... but which does come with a global map attached of their estimates of gdp losses, alas in absolute figures only  and i think over one year based on what they say on the previous slide :      before the covid-19 outbreak, there has been a niche academic domain of estimating the economic impact of pandemics already, typically using a cge model. results depend of course on the assumptions used. e.g. smith, keogh-brown et al. had a series of papers approximately a decade ago. quoting from a later one that covered more than one european country:    results suggest gdp losses from the disease of approximately 0.5-2  but school closure and prophylactic absenteeism more than triples these effects.   so they went as high  10  gdp losses. while they did not envisage government mandated lockdown s , they modelled  prophylactic absenteeism  in response to  3  death rate media reports as the most severe case. an earlier paper of theirs, on uk only is open-access in the bmj. quoting their assumption from there    almost everybody in the population will know someone who has died once the mortality rate reaches one death per 300 people, triggering prophylactic absenteeism.   the same authors  keogh-brown and smith  also published in 2008 a fairly detailed post-hoc account of how economic predictions for sars fared in hindsight... which generally was not all that good, meaning that most models overestimated the economic impact of sars. it cites positively an 2003 adb paper of fan that hedged its bets on two different scenarios  early containment being one of them .  another paper verikios et al.  2015  in a similar vein but attempts a global estimate  gtap cge , and also discussed prior/related work:    the two pandemic scenarios modelled give quantitatively and qualitatively different  results.  ...  our results show that the peak gdp effects on the world economy of an influenza pandemic are in the range 0.06 to 1.01 per cent in the peak year depending on the nature of the pandemic. our results are smaller than the only previous estimates of the global economic effects of influenza pandemics by mckibbin and sidorenko  2006 . they estimate reductions in global gdp of between 0.8 and 12.6 per cent depending on the severity of the pandemic. our results are not directly comparable to mckibbin and sidorenko as they did not model a continuum of pandemic scenarios across the virulence-infectiousness continuum. rather, they assume a given reproducibility of the virus  infectiousness  and vary virulence across their four scenarios. further, they implicitly assume multiple waves for all their scenarios as they presume that  new infections continue to occur for greater than one year. this is likely to characterise only more extreme pandemics  such as the 1918-19 flu  rather than milder pandemics. differences in the range of influenza pandemics modelled by us and mckibbin and sidorenko are justifiable given the uncertain nature of future pandemics. our results thus build upon the findings of mckibbin and sidorenko by extending the estimation of potential gdp estimates over a further range of potential pandemic threat scenarios.     ...  our results show that the global macroeconomic effects of an influenza pandemic may be significant but are also likely to be short-lived. the largest economic impacts of an influenza pandemic are driven by reduced international tourism, due to risk-modifying measures by households and travel restrictions imposed by health authorities, and lost workdays, due to illness or formal social distancing measures designed to contain the virus. this is consistent with the work of keogh-brown et al.  2009, 2010 .  ...     verikios seems to work for kpmg australia nowadays and they have released a covid-19 model that is fairly detailed in explaining its assumptions, for example it has separate pre- and post-stimulus arms/scenarios, but it mostly covers the australian case, in particular only models the government response of that country.  kpmg uses a nigem  new-keynesian  macro model, and they have basically tweaked some parameters of this using estimates of shocks in four areas: reduction in productivity due to additional sick leave by workers, reduction in productivity due to additional carer is leave by workers, incremental investment premium, capacity utilisation adjustment  i.e. supply chain disruptions . the first two were informed by fairly detailed labour  amp  health statistics, the latter two seem a bit more arbitrary to me, e.g. they added a flat 1  investment premium.    i was hoping the imf would have something more concrete than this, but i guess they are weary of advancing anything more detailed yet:    the covid-19 pandemic would cause a global recession in 2020 that could be worse than the one triggered by the 2008-2009 global financial crisis, but world economic output should recover in 2021, the imf said on monday.    georgieva issued the new outlook after a conference call of g20 finance ministers and central bankers, who she said agreed on the need for solidarity across the globe.  ...     the outlook for global growth is negative and the imf expects  a recession at least as bad as during the global financial crisis, or worse,  georgieva said.    earlier this month, georgieva had warned that 2020 world growth would be below last year is 2.9 percent rate, but stopped short of predicting a recession.    georgieva on monday said that a recovery is expected in 2021, but to reach it, countries would need to prioritize containment and strengthen health systems.     the economic impact is and will be severe, but the faster the virus stops, the quicker and stronger the recovery will be,  she said.   the cbo has now posted its own assessment for the us economy. it disclaims that it is  highly uncertain, especially for later periods , but basically, for the second quarter of 2020 it predicts 10 percent unemployment and the economy to contract by  more than  7 percent.  the wto secretariat has posted this self-explanatory chart on april 8:   	
so i am reading and listening to the news, watching the numbers re covid-19, listening to and reading apocalyptic accounts of the coming recession, hearing of record breaking unemployment reports and then doubling those numbers the next week...  and the stock market goes down 1-2  and then stages a bit of a rally at the end of the day...  april 3   i get that there has been a 20   drop already, but it just seems to me that this does not account for the seriousness of the situation moving forward.  i am new to the trading/investing world  i have always been a buy-and-holder until a month ago when i saw the writing on the wall and got out when the markets were down just a few percent . but i am just trying to figure out why there is not more market movement downwards. can somebody help me understand   answer market reactions to information are not always timely, proportional, or rational.   we do not know the full impact of our current situation  we are feeling it out.   some people  bulls , believe that the initial dip was an over-reaction, that the government response will prevent further decline, and/or that things will go back to normal pretty quickly, so they are buying the dip. on the other side you have people  bears  that believe the initial reaction was just a start but not enough to price-in the full impact, that the government can not prop up the economy, and/or that this will drag on for a long while, so they are betting on further decline.    the problem with this idea of information being priced-in is that we all know there is a global pandemic, but there are very different opinions about how much that should affect the market.  consider unemployment levels: we have projections about unemployment rate potentially hitting a peak over 30 . meanwhile, the current unemployment rate is 4.4  and projected to hit double digits in april. the only way all of that information could be appropriately priced in is if everyone agreed about the reasonableness of the projections and had the economic prowess to understand the actual impact of those figures.  instead, what happens is that some people will see the actual april unemployment numbers as surprising new information to react to, while others will see it as old information in line with their expectations. add in thousands of other pieces of information about which people have conflicting opinions, and it becomes pretty much impossible to know in advance if that information was all priced in appropriately.  the most recent comparable event is the subprime mortgage crash. many people thought bottom was hit around november 2008 and there was a brief counter-trend rally before actual bottom was hit around march 2009. we do not know at this time if the market has bottomed out yet or not  nor do we know how long recovery could take. 	
we often get sore throats once or twice a year, and it clears in a few days sometimes without any antibiotics. i was wondering why does not our body become immune after clearing a sore throat   answer  short answer    it should be noted that there are many non-pathogenic causes of sore throat, and i would suspect that you are not always distinguishing these causes from actual illness.   in most cases, it would not be possible to build a response  immunological or otherwise  to avoid reacting to these stressors.   bacteria and viruses mutate frequently in ways that make your immune system unable to properly recognize them to ward off initial infection.   your immune system recognizes specific pathogens based on structural characteristics. if those characteristics change when pathogens mutate  which happens fairly frequently , your immune system will not recognize it as readily  or initially at all .      long answer   sore throat is most commonly attributed to pharyngitis, or the inflammation of the back of the throat called the pharynx.  causes  sore throats can be caused by many things.  e.g., see here, summarized below :  first off, a sore throat can be the result of many things unrelated to illness:    allergies dryness irritants excessive talking,singing,shouting,etc. muscle strain gastroesophageal reflux disease  gerd    as a result, at least 30    higher in adults  of reported sore throat cases  and supposedly many more unreported cases  are not due to any type of illness.   further, a number of pathogens can cause a sore throat:   viruses   rhinovirus, coronavirus, influenza, parainfluenza, adenoviruses, epstein-barr, etc.  see here for one estimate of relative etiologies .   bacteria   a number of bacterial infections can cause a sore throat. the most common is streptococcus pyogenes  aka  strep a  .     it turns out that pathogen-caused pharyngitis is fairly common. supposedly 10  of adults with sore throats have strep, and around 70  of children pharyngitis cases seen by doctors are either virally or bacterially caused.    however, it should be noted that only 20-30  of children and just 5-10  of adults have bacteria to blame for their sore throat, with viral infections being much more common.  source: idsa .   sore throat frequency  it turns out that sore throats are fairly common  jones  2004  determined that about 7.5  of people have a sore throat in any three-month period. further, on average, adults get a sore throat two to three times a year and children about five times a year  tamparo 2011 and rutter  amp  newby 2015 , so your personal experience is fairly average.  because viral causes and non-pathogenic causes make up an overwhelming percentage of overall sore throat cases, it should not be surprising that most sore throats clear up without the use of any antibiotics.   as for those that are caused by pathogens:  why no immunity   bacteria and viruses both mutate fairly quickly  see antigenic variation, antigenic drift and antigenic shift , so it should not be surprising that you are capable of having an immune response to pathogens throughout life.    if we consider just strep alone, it mutates/reemerges with improved fitness frequently  e.g., see bao et al 2016 and their citations  and see sanjuan et al.  2010  for a reviewof viral mutation rates.    so not only are there a number of pathogens that can cause sore throat, but each of these pathogens can mutate. that leaves you with a fairly sizable number of potential invaders that can illicit a sore throat.   let is see how your immune system responds:  your immune system contains cells that can be split into two broad groups: cells that belong to the adaptive immune system, and cells which belong to the innate immune system.  see here for a simple explanation .   innate immune system: consists of cells responsible for initial detection of pathogens, recruitment of other immune cells, activation of the complement system, engulfment and  more immediate  destruction of pathogens.  adaptive immune system: consists of cells which coordinate to develop a memory of the infections they have seen previously in order to mount a faster, more pronounced immune response to repeat pathogens.   depending on the kind of foreign invasion, two different immune responses can occur in either of these 2 broader  systems : either a humoral response involving antibodies or a cell-mediated repsponse.    a general feature of the immune system is that these mechanisms rely on detecting structural features of the pathogen or toxin that mark it as distinct from host cells  see chaplin 2010 for a review . the mechanisms permitting recognition of pathogenic/toxic foreign structures can be broken down into two general categories:    hard-wired responses encoded by genes that recognize molecular patterns shared both by many microbes and toxins that are not present in the mammalian host. this is the innate system described above. responses that are encoded by gene elements that somatically rearrange to assemble antigen-binding molecules with extreme specificity for individual unique foreign structures. this is the adaptive system described above.   antibodies recognizes a unique/specific molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, and binds to it to tag it for immune attack.        because the adaptive system is composed of small numbers of cells with specificity for any individual pathogen the responding cells must proliferate after encountering the antigen in order to attain sufficient numbers to mount an effective response against the microbe or the toxin.  source: chaplin 2010 .    this means that you can still experience some mild symptoms due to the invading pathogen.     the important take-away from all this, though, is that your immune response relies on structural  markers  on pathogens in order to recognize them. this is true for both innate and adaptive immune responses. if the physical/structural properties of a pathogen change  due to antigenic processes and mutations as mentioned above  your immune system will be slower  and possibly ineffective  in responding to an attack.    the result, then, could be another one of those sore throats...     citations   bao, yun-juan et al.  phenotypic differentiation of streptococcus pyogenes populations is induced by recombination-driven gene-specific sweeps.  scientific reports 6  2016 : 36644. pmc. web. 17 mar. 2017. chaplin, d. d.  2010 . overview of the immune response. journal of allergy and clinical immunology, 125 2 , s3-s23. jones, roger  2004 . oxford textbook of primary medical care. oxford university press. p. 674. isbn 9780198567820. retrieved 4 august 2016. rutter, paul professor  newby, david  2015 . community pharmacy anz: symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. elsevier health sciences. p. 19. isbn 9780729583459. sanjuan, r., nebot, m. r., chirico, n., mansky, l. m.,  amp  belshaw, r.  2010 . viral mutation rates. journal of virology, 84 19 , 9733-9748. tamparo, carol  2011 . fifth edition: diseases of the human body. philadelphia, pa: f.a. davis company. p. 356. isbn 978-0-8036-2505-1.   	
what care should be available during pregnancy and childbirth  answer all pregnant women, including those with confirmed or suspected covid-19 infections, have the right to high quality care before, during and after childbirth. this includes antenatal, newborn, postnatal, intrapartum and mental health care.a safe and positive childbirth experience includes:being treated with respect and dignity having a companion of choice present during delivery clear communication by maternity staff appropriate pain relief strategies:mobility in labour where possible, and birth position of choice.if covid-19 is suspected or confirmed, health workers should take all appropriate precautions to reduce risks of infection to themselves and others, including hand hygiene, and appropriate use of protective clothing like gloves, gown and medical mask.	
should i avoid domestic travel  answer the prime minister has also said all  non-essential  travel within australia should be cancelled. western australia, south australia, queensland, northern territory and tasmania have essentially closed their borders - any arrivals are required to self-isolate for 14 days.	
how likely am i to catch covid-19  answer the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there.  for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19.  covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go.	
will the hospitals remain open  answer will the hospitals remain open  yes. hospitals will operate normally.	
we are traveling to roma this monday and we are kinda scared with what is happening in the north of italy with the coronavirus.  a lot of news on the internet say that it is not advised but i feel like they are making a big deal of it and there is nothing to worry  should we stay or can we travel there safely   answer the centers for disease control  cdc , the us government is public health agency, currently gives the following advice about travel to italy:    warning - level 3, avoid nonessential travel--widespread community transmission    cdc recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to italy. there is limited access to adequate medical care in affected areas. ... if you must travel:      avoid contact with sick people.  avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.  clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at 60 -95  alcohol. soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty.      it is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom  before eating  and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.  supplies of hand sanitizer, tissues, and other hygiene products may be limited, so consider bringing them with you.    pay attention to your health during travel and for 14 days after you leave.     it is probably advisable to postpone travel to italy at this time.  note that this advice is comparable to the  level 3  advice for china and south korea. for those countries, the cdc recommends that everyone avoid all nonessential travel. 	
i am american and my girlfriend is a chinese citizen who lives in the us. however, we were both in china in december and january  leaving on january 2nd, 2020  in areas that were unaffected by covid-19 at the time.  we have a trip booked to mexico city for spring break, so should we anticipate any issues with both traveling to mexico and returning to the us  i assume i will be fine, but should we prepare proof that my gf will have been in the us for 2.5 months before going to mexico  and returning    answer i was just reading a post by a frequent traveler on a private travel forum  so unfortunately i can not link it here . they are a us citizen  with global entry, known traveler etc.  who traveled to china in early january  and returned to the us then . when returning recently from another trip  to a different country  they were flagged and questioned by cdc about the trip to china in jan, even though this trip was unrelated. they were told to expect to be questioned every time they re-enter the us now until the virus threat dies down. from their description it sounds like they were sent by cbp immigration officer to meet with someone from cdc, and then were sent back through to immigration  a matter of minutes to maybe an hour, although they do not specify  - they were able to easily proceed to connecting flights without issue.  so i would say that yes you should both prepare to be questioned over your travel to china when re-entering the us. nothing to do with being chinese citizen, more to do with the questions for anyone who has been to china recently. 	
why is the seegene covid molecular genetic test not approved by the fda  today is google search with the the two keywords: fda   seegene returned an article  12-march indicating that the seegene covid 19 test is not fda approved:  fda has not approved south korea covid-19 testing kit fast automated multiple testing genes, people  was the test evaluated by the fda  i would think that there is more than enough sample data having been fielded in kr. what rigors did fda approval of the roche covid test meet    answer the linked post  which reads to me rather like rant than a news post  not the underlying cnn article indiate that the manufacturer actually applied for fda eua  emergency use approval . without such an application, there  rather obviously  will not be an approval.     was the test evaluated by the fda     the clinical evaluation needs to be done by the manufacturer, not by the fda. the fda then evaluates the results submitted by the manufacturer with ther eua application.  the test is not on the fda page that lists approved tests. we do not know why. e.g., whether they it did not pass the fda eua requirements  i would think that unlikely  or the manufacturer never applied  which may be totally sensible for several reasons, e.g. if their manufacturing capactity is such that all the tests they produce are bought, say, in east asia      what rigors did fda approval of the roche covid test meet      see the fda faq on getting eua and requirements for using a test even before that eua is in place on the general requirements and  the roche test manufacturer is instructions listing their validation results in particular. fda explicitly says that they want the manufacturer to be in early contact with them.      a few more thoughts:   it is not only the test kit that needs approval, the test kit gets approved for use with certain extraction equipment  manufacturer  amp  possibly model  and also the lab needs certain approval. it may be that in east asia different machines  other manufacturers  are used, so that the south korean approval cannot be used for evaluating performance with the machinery predominantly used by us labs. the first eua for the cdc covid test was granted by the fda on feb. 4th. i.e., one day before seegene had their first test kit according to the cnn post and thus more than a week before the seegene test got south korean fast-track approval.  that such a test with fast track validation may turn out not to be that great after all is a known risk which is accepted in the current situation in order to have tests available at all. we still would not expect faulty reagents in the test kit, though.  theres nothing that unique about the south korean test manufacturer. there are other manufacturers and also ones that were apparently even earlier  sent out first  unapproved  tests on jan 10th  than the south koreans, see e.g. this new post about a berlin manufacturer of such tests  in german . this news post reads very similar to the south korean, just with a different company. we also do not know yet how long/where which test will perform well as mutations of the virus will happen - and they may affect the performance of some tests but possibly not others. the berlin test manufacturer discusses this in another newspaper article/interview. afaik, other test kits also do not require manual pcr - whether in some countries the testing is done manually because the local approved labs do not have automated extraction/pcr machinery in place is a totally different question.   	
if person a is infected  covid-19  and person b is not, could the following work as a vaccination  person a exhales  coughs   into a a transparent bag. the bag is radiated for a long time with a strong ultraviolet  uv  light as is found in some residential well-water systems. person b inhales the contents of the bag.  i am curious mostly about how virus particles are damaged at the molecular level by uv light and how this relates to how vaccines are manufactured today.  answer short answer: probably not.   long answer: for your body to build immunity against something, it needs to identify it as something harmful to you. otherwise, how would it know if this is just some random particle in your environment that it should ignore  there are molecular clues that your body uses to recognize better whether something is likely a pathogen  that means it should try to build immunity against  and those are some of the additives  known as adjuvants  present in man-made vaccines.   also, the route of administration is also important. things that you eat or breath in are triaged by the waldeyer ring because maybe you just ate something that is alive, but not exactly a pathogen. dysfunctions in this process  thinking a normal protein is part of a dangerous pathogen  is believed to be one of the possible causes of allergies. injecting it into your blood-stream often makes it more effective  but there are exceptions: polio vaccine however can be orally administered .   a nice read about this topic is this: the dichotomy of pathogens and allergens in vaccination approaches.  this is perhaps a must read on this topic: what to expect of a good vaccine and how to achieve it.  i am not really sure what else to tell you. the process you described is a part of the manufacturing of some vaccines, so you are on the right track. but vaccines are hard to make, you can not do it for every disease and involves a lot of experimenting. 	
i am a british national with a british passport who has a contract to begin work in germany in august ,and a partner  not married  who is a german national living there. i have a chance also to register my residency at her address with the local town  council . with her meeting me at the airport, with proof of her address/passport, do you think i will be allowed to enter the country at the moment  i know there is a list of things you need to have and prove to enter, but will my list be enough  apart from the brand new residency registration, i will not have anything else as a proof of address. thank you in advance for your help  answer we do not know what will be the case in summer - the current regulations will be  reviewed , but it is unclear when they will be relaxed.   for the current regulation the federal police  bundespolizei  has provided guidance. valid reasons include:   to work in germany to reunite with family   so yes, you would potentially be allowed to enter. if you are not married to your partner, her picking you up will only help mildly, as they cannot easily check if you are family. you can, however, bring your work contract to prove that you have to start there on day x.  note that this is by no means legal advice, and the situation will likely change until the summer. make sure you check the regulations before you leave, and try to confirm the rules from an official source. 	
i am currently laid off from my job due to the coronavirus outbreak. my employer informed my coworkers and i in a group meeting on the day before the lay-off that we would all be brought back to work when it is safe to do so.  if my employer was to not bring me back to work after the outbreak is over, perhaps citing a work performance issue or something along those lines, can i sue them for wrongful termination after they verbally promised all of us that we would all have our jobs after the coronavirus outbreak is over   answer people are laid off all the time when sales are down, the market is bad, etc: there is no legal  right to a job  except whatever is in your employment contract. there is a legal concept of promissory estoppel which boils down to promises being binding. however, there has to be a clear and definite promise, not for example a statement like  we hope to bring you back after this is over .   normally, the employer can argue that they have the right to fire you regardless of performance, and that would be the end of it. let is say you have it in writing, and it is clear that they unconditionally promise to hire you back: you would want to  e stop them from arguing that they have the right to fire you. the underlying idea of promissory estoppel is that such a promise keeps them from making that argument. but: it is not enough that they made the promise, you also had to rely on the promise and act / forbear from acting in some way because of that promise. it could be, for example, taking another job, or moving to another country, or simply looking for another job. the hard part, then, would be getting a clear and definite promise. 	
central banks around the world have cut interest rates in the past few days in response to the covid-19 pandemic, including the us federal reserve  0-0.25  , the bank of england  0.1  , and the reserve bank of australia  0.25  . notably, the european central bank has not yet cut interest rates further, but this is partly because it is already in the negatives, at -0.5 .  why are central banks taking this measure in response to this pandemic in particular - i.e. how does this measure lessen the pandemic is economic impact - and what are the impacts on the average consumer of a cut in their country is central bank interest rate in general   answer by lowering interest rates the fed is main goal is to prop up the stock market, and support us corporations.  this is achieved through the following effects: - it encourages credit creation through bank lending, and because most money originates in credit it makes money cheaper and more widely available - it lowers the rates of return on savings and thus encourages savers to spend more freely, which has a twofold effect: it stimulates the economy into the creation of yet more loans, and it tells savers to go elsewhere with their money  the resulting availability of money/credit and lowered bank savings rates makes the stock market an attractive destination.  since 2007, the financial crisis, the fed is essentially a hostage of the stock market in that if now must keep loose monetary policy to further the illusion of perpetual long term stock market gains. this is further evidenced by the tentative and then aborted qt  quantitive tightening  attempt last year.   in the current climate of coronavirus economic meltdown, the lowered interest rate has a further goal: to help protect us corporations who are now overstretched on corporate bonds.  since 2007, unbeknownst to many, and i think illegal outside the us     , corporations - rather than restructure in the wake of the crisis - regularly take advantage of the cheap money stimulus by issuing corporate bonds  essentially borrowing money at low rates  so that their execs can use this to direct the company to purchase its own stock on the stock market. this creates the illusion of rising corporate value while allowing shareholders to receive big dividends and ceos to pay themselves income related bonuses.  this irresponsible corporate behaviour has brought us corporations to the point that the coronavirus meltdown has slowed earnings below what they need to pay on the corporate bonds. without direct government support many us corporations will go bust, and corporate bond prices will plummet, which will trigger further meltdown in financial institutions that invest in those assets.  again, silently under the media radar, just this week the us     and ecb created new funds that will be directed to supply money to those institutions buying corporate bonds. to be clear, the way that works is that bondholders who are now nervous about the corporation defaulting might not roll over their bond....rather than reacquiring bonds at the end of their term, or even ending prematurely, they will demand their money from the corps. the corps. do not have it, but new bonds will be sold to the govt backed funds.  once again the taxpayer bails out the fatcat   so in summary, the reduced interest rate in combo with new funds, is designed to prop up the stock market and corporations to prevent socioeconomic collapse.  around the world, central banks lower the rate for the effects of stimulus and stock market prop-up described above. ecb does not lower because the negative interest rate actually makes loans more expensive in some cases as being paid to borrow makes it easier than to lend. 	
i am an undergraduate in the us.  my professor just told us via email that he will not be able to grade an exam until next week because his family member died from complications due to covid-19. i do not care much about the delay, but i do like my professor, both as a person and an educator. would it be out of line for me to send an email along the lines of  hi professor, i am sorry to hear your loved one passed.   i am not a very socially outgoing person and i do not speak up in class much, so i do not know if this would overstep the student-professor relationship.  answer it is not merely perfectly fine  e.g., in the u.s. , but a very good thing to do.  conceivably in other cultures it could be construed as too intrusive, we must acknowledge.  	
is there a vaccine or treatment for covid-19  answer no. there are trials underway in china and elsewhere, but because the virus is new, there is no approved treatment for covid-19 and a vaccine is likely more than a year away.	
will full-time college students qualify for stimulus checks  answer depends -- and i am not trying to dodge here, but everyone is circumstances are different, so i do not want to generalize. say an individual is claimed as dependent by their parents, then that is an automatic no. say you live on your own, are not claimed as a dependent and had a summer job, then yes.	
does yoga, pranayam help build immunity against covid-19  answer does yoga, pranayam help build immunity against covid-19  there is no evidence that yoga, pranayam, ayurvedic or homoeopathic drugs are effective in treating covid-19. some people argue that since these exercises help build immunity, it can help fight the virus. that may or may not be the case. but as of now, there is no data supporting this as a treatment.	
what is being given to treat the coronavirus once you have become infected  answer there is no vaccine for the new virus and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-19, so treatment consists of supportive care to help relieve symptoms and, for severe cases, care to support vital organ functions, the cdc says.    about 80  of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment, according to the who. for most patients, that means drinking plenty of fluids and resting, just as you would for the cold or flu.	
what is a coronavirus  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19.	
do you know any website s  where i could check how many covid-19 cases italy had 10 days ago   let me explain: we are travelling to the dominican republic at the end of this month with transfer in germany  frankfurt . at the start of this week, my country  slovakia  banned all flights to and from italy.  so i would like to check how many cases were there in italy about 10 days ago, to maybe predict the future cases in germany  possibility that all flights to germany will be banned too . at this moment, our travel agency does not want to cancel our trip, and neither do we, because we would lose 80  of our money.  answer you can check it at worldometers.info. there is plenty of info for each country in there.   	
i am a 23 year old living in romania, currently renting an apartament. i am earning enough that i am now looking to buy an apartment of my own in the near future with a mortgage loan, but, right now, i think there is a housing bubble about to burst, at least in the area i live in.   this site shows the price graphs for apartments in my living area. it seems that the prices are reaching the values they were at before the 2008 recession. is it reasonable to expect them to drop similarly to how they did 12 years ago  if the prices do drop within the next 3 years, is it reasonable to expect that i would be able to get the same kind of loan i am eligible for getting now from a bank   from a purely financial perspective, does it make more sense to buy an apartment now, despite the inflated prices, or wait for the bubble to burst and buy at that point   answer you can not make a market prediction based purely on the current market value. the value is a function of supply and demand. to make any sort of reasonable prediction you would need to understand population in your area and predictions on population growth/shrinkage, demographics e.g. are the sort of people who would buy an apartment likely to increase as a proportion of the population in your area, and are there already any house building initiatives planned in your area to meet any expected population growth. these are some of the immediate local indicators which is possible to find out about. then there may also be macro/global factors which may not be possible to predict e.g. if coronavirus suddenly wiped out 5  of global population what effect would that have on global property demand  basically unless you can do extensive research and analysis then you are better off trying to find an expert with some relevant credentials, or not attempting to time the market at all. 	
how deadly is the virus  answer we do not entirely know yet. of the 81,191 confirmed cases, 2,768 people have died, a mortality rate of about 3 percent. that would be worse than the spanish flu, which had a mortality rate of about 2 percent, and substantially worse than a more ordinary influenza, which kills between one in a thousand and one in ten thousand people. but there are lots of unknowns. first, the bad news: only about 30,000 people have recovered from the virus, which leaves 50,000 or so still in some stage of treatment. not all of those people will recover, so the mortality rate is expected to rise at least a little bit. now, the good news: that 81,191 figure represents only the number of confirmed cases. it appears likely that many thousands more were infected and either did not suffer symptoms or suffered symptoms too minor to seek treatment. in that case, the mortality rate is probably substantially lower than the statistics make it seem.	
if i get infected once with the virus which causes a common cold, does that mean i will not get infected with the same strain of the virus ever in my lifetime    is the immune system capable and smart enough to recognize the viruses that have infected me in the past, and kill them before it initiates its incubation within a cell  if so, why do i keep getting a common cold again and again  do i keep exposing myself to a new different strain of the same virus   based on the fact that there are over 200 different types of viruses that cause a common cold. to what extent do you think creating a universal vaccine for the common cold could be successful, and what are the challenges facing scientists in creating a successful universal vaccine   answer   if i get infected once with the virus which causes a common cold, does that mean i will not get infected with the same strain of the virus ever in my lifetime     it depends on quirks of your immune system and the viral load you are exposed to, but in theory  based on vaccination and other studies , presence of the virus will trigger a suppressive response, not to nasal mucosal invasion but to viral replication and cell destruction/inflammation to the degree that you clinically manifest  a cold .   regarding your quirks,    the persistence of high-titer serotype-specific antibody is associated with protection from infection as well as reduced symptom severity following experimental challenge with the same serotype  52 . however, there is little cross-neutralization among serotypes, which presents a challenge to vaccine development, given that there are more than 100 different known hrv serotypes  53 . further support for the role of humoral immunity in the prevention and control of hrv infection was observed in a study of patients with primary hypogammaglobulinemia. these patients experienced more frequent and severe hrv infections than their healthy spouses despite the administration of replacement immunoglobulin therapy  54 .   that is only the beginning. immunology is very complex.    to what extent do you think creating a universal vaccine for the common cold could be successful...   close to, if not, zero.  there are about 120 distinctly different serotypes of rhinovirus which cause the  common cold , which could require 120 separate vaccines. also a significant percentage of  colds  are caused by other types of viruses  coronavirus - like tat in china right now, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza and parainfluenza viruses  as well as some bacteria.    human coronaviruses, members of the coronaviridae family, were first identified in 1962 and have been particularly difficult to isolate by use of standard cell culture techniques.   one needs to reliably grow a virus before making a vaccine.    efforts at vaccine development are hindered by the existence of more than 100 hrv serotypes with high-level sequence variability in the antigenic sites.   and    compared to patients with coronavirus-associated colds, there is no difference in respiratory symptom severity or duration.   however, there is a light at the end of the tunnel: the older you get, the fewer new viruses you are exposed to  if you stay in one geograpical location , and the fewer colds you get. i have not had a  common cold  in a few years now. if i move across the continent, i will have more colds. 	
let is say 15 minutes after a person coughs or sneezes, where does the droplet go  up in the air and down to the ground  is it different inside a building   answer data suggests droplets remain in the air up to 3 hours, and longer for droplet nuclei. where they go depends on the local temperatures, humidity and air flows.    the image shows a cough on the left and a sneeze on the right.     currently, the term droplet is often taken to refer to droplets  5 mm in diameter that fall rapidly to the ground under gravity, and therefore are transmitted only over a limited distance  e.g.   1 m . in contrast, the term droplet nuclei refers to droplets   5 mm in diameter that can remain suspended in air for significant periods of time, allowing them to be transmitted over distances  1 m  stetzenbach, buttner  amp  cruz, 2004  wong  amp  leung, 2004 . other studies suggest slightly different definitions, with ranges for  large  droplets,  small  droplets and droplet nuclei being  60 mm in diameter,   60 mm in diameter and  lt 10 mm in diameter, respectively  tang et al., 2006  xie et al., 2007 . the concept is that the naturally and artificially produced aerosols will contain a range of droplet sizes, whose motion will depend significantly on various environmental factors, such as gravity, the direction and strength of local airflows, temperature and relative humidity  which will affect both the size and mass of the droplet due to evaporation .   oops, breathing and talking can produce droplets yet health authorities continue to claim that masks are not needed  to stop wearers from broadcasting droplets into the environment     humans can produce respiratory aerosols  droplets  by several means, including breathing, talking, coughing  figure c.1, a , sneezing  figure c.1, b  and even singing  wong, 2003  toth et al., 2004 .   we are being told that the main droplets are the larger ones being emitted but talking for 5 mins can produce droplet nuclei the same as a cough    published data have suggested that sneezing may produce as many as 40 000 droplets between 0.5-12 mm in diameter  cole  amp  cook, 1998  tang et al., 2006  that may be expelled at speeds up to 100 m/s  wells, 1955  cole  amp  cook, 1998 , whereas coughing may produce up to 3000 droplet nuclei, about the same number as talking for five minutes  cole  amp  cook, 1998  fitzgerald  amp  haas, 2005  tang et al., 2006 . despite the variety in size, large droplets comprise most of the total volume of expelled respiratory droplets. further data on the behaviour of droplet dispersion in naturally generated aerosols are needed.   small droplets fall to the ground where they dry up before they reach the ground but some become droplet nuclei on their way down which allows them to remain airborne    in the classic study of airborne transmission, wells  1934  was able to identify the difference between disease transmission via large droplets and by airborne routes. wells found that, under normal air conditions, droplets smaller than 100 mm in diameter would completely dry out before falling approximately 2 m to the ground. this finding allowed the establishment of the theory of droplets and droplet nuclei transmission depending on the size of the infected droplet. the wells evaporation-falling curve of droplets  see figure c.2  is important in understanding airborne transmission and transmission by large droplets. wells  study also demonstrated that droplets could transform into droplet nuclei by evaporation.   and what happens to droplet nuclei    droplet nuclei floating on the air may be carried by the movement of air. entrainment of air into neighbouring airspaces may occur during the most innocuous daily activities  for example, as a result of people walking, or the opening of a door between a room and the adjacent corridor or space  hayden et al., 1998  edge, paterson  amp  settles, 2005  tang et al., 2005, 2006 . in addition, the air temperature  and therefore air density  differences across an open doorway will also cause air exchange to occur between the two areas, providing a second mechanism to allow air into other areas  tang et al., 2005, 2006   see figure c.3 .   which is why they use negative pressure rooms when doing a procedure that can form aerosols  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk143281/ 	
why worry about coronavirus when the flu kills many more people  answer the novel coronavirus is dangerous for several reasons, even if the number of deaths have not matched that of the flu.  the first us case of coronavirus was reported in january, and the first us death from coronavirus was reported in late february. by april 9, the us had more than 456,800 cases of coronavirus, and more than 16,000 people have died.  since this flu season started october 1, more than 24,000 americans have died from the flu, according to cdc estimates. nationwide, the flu has infected at least 39 million people between october and late march.   but here are key differences when comparing the flu vs. coronavirus:     the cdc estimates for the flu go back to october 2019. but the first us case of coronavirus did not emerge until several months later.  coronavirus is twice as contagious as the flu. research indicates a person with the flu infects an average of 1.28 other people, cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. but with coronavirus,  it is likely between 2 and 3  other people.  coronavirus infections have a  very high mortality rate - one in six - among people who are over 80 and people with underlying chronic disease,  epidemiologist dr. abdul el-sayed said.   people with coronavirus might not get symptoms for 14 days, and some get no symptoms at all. but during that time, they are still contagious and can infect others unknowingly.   a vaccine is available for the flu, but no vaccine is available for coronavirus. experts say the number of flu deaths could be drastically reduced if more people got their flu shots. but about half of americans do not get vaccinated, including most children who die from the flu.	
news about romania is covid-19-driven, reverse diaspora:    over 200,000 romanians who worked abroad have returned to the country since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, with many of them coming from those eu countries strongly affected by the pandemic, pm ludovic orban said on friday  march 27 .     on february 25 there was only one case in romania, two cases of coronavirus in spain, and several others in france. look at the number of cases in romania, less over 1,000, and if we also take into the account the cured ones, we have below 1,000 patients with covid-19, while there are tens of thousands of infections in other countries. romania has taken serious measures from the start , the premier stated.    besides, he underlined that romania had another particularity as against the other countries, namely that over 200,000 romanians from diaspora returned to the homeland.  if we had not taken severe containment measures, be it quarantine or isolation, the spread would have been larger , orban added.   how did romania manage to quarantine 200,000 people returning from abroad  if i understand correctly that is what they did   what specific enforcement measures did they take   answer i do not have a complete list of all the measures taken, but in large strokes, the following things happened:   schools were closed very soon after the first cases of covid-19 were discovered  large gatherings of people were prohibited  not more than 100, then after some period not more than 50   a state of emergency was declared when there were relatively few cases of infections compared to the population number  a lot of local districts started to take actions on their own, like closing public parks. the private sector also took action. companies encouraged employees to work from home, sporting events were canceled, stores changed their program or limit the number of shoppers at any given time, hypermarkets started to disinfect their shopping carts and protect their cashiers with glass windows, trains in the subway station would pull only one by one at the platform to limit the number of passengers that would gather together. because a state of emergency was declared, new laws were passed to control what people were doing. first there were restrictions to be on the streets between 22:00 and 06:00. this lasted for a few days, then restrictions were put in place all day. now or example you are not allowed to exit the home unless for some specific reasons like buying food, seek medical help, take care of elderly people, go to work, and a few others. people above 65 are not allowed to go out of their home unless they have an emergency. for other activities they are only allowed to go out between 11:00 and 13:00. stores reinforce this by allowing only the elderly to shop in that time interval. now all parks are closed. and groups of more than 3 people are disallowed. all shops and malls that do not sell food or things you need to survive were closed.   these are a few things that happened since the whole covid-19 cases started to happen in romania.  now, to your question. because we are in a state of emergency the law was changed to account for the pandemic situation. if you have returned from abroad you need to go into self-isolation or you are placed under quarantine  for 14 days if i remember correctly . you are not allowed to leave your house and friends, family or couriers must provide you with food and supplies. you do not interact with them, they just leave them at the door. if you do not respect these measures, the fines are now very large, up to 20000 ron  more than 4000 eur , and you can also go to jail. if you breach self-isolation or quarantine and you are discovered, you are being placed under military guard so you do not do it again.  now, with that being said, you can not really monitor 200000 people or keep them in check. there are controls, but you can not really keep them isolated. many were discovered wondering the streets, going to parties, visiting friends, etc by the authorities. it helps i guess that there is some panic and people will report those that they know came from abroad and are not sitting put  mothers have reported their children to the authorities, for examples .  so basically that is what is happening right now. we have lower cases of infections than other countries because everyone reacted quickly and took measures before things were bad. because movement is restricted this limits contact between persons. people also isolated themselves in the houses by precaution before the state of emergency was declared  for example, a few days before the state of emergency was declared, people hit the stores and bought all the flour and yeast, rice, canned produce, etc to stay in home for weeks  because of worry, fear, panic.  for further reference, some details on the infection in romania:  http://instnsp.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /5eced796595b4ee585bcdba03e30c127   on the left, in red are the total confirmed cases, in yellow are persons under quarantine, blue is people in isolation at home, in gray are the number of deceased people   my belief is that authorities panicked when they saw what was happening in italy for example  many romanians live there and return for easter holiday each year  so they took harsh measures before it was needed. it seems it helped. although they also took some bad decisions like limiting access to information  in the name of having it from official sources . i do not remember exactly, but i think that link above is from independently collected data, as authorities no longer report cases per district, but only globally.  edit: as a response to your comment i have looked up a few examples in the media:  1. in the first day of restrictions of circulation, 5,621 persons who did not comply with the measures were fined 7,404,297 ron  1,531,965 eur . that is an average of 1,317 ron  272 eur  per person.  2. in later news, the number of people who did not comply with the restrictions of circulation and were fined increased to 23,973, and an amount of 31,400,000 ron  6,496,730 eur . that is an average of 1309 ron  270 eur  per person. the same news mentions that for 209 persons a criminal record was opened and 4,235 were fined for non-compliance with the isolation/quarantine measures.  3. the news in point 2 did not mention how much the fines were for those that did not comply with isolation/quarantine, but in older news, 10 days ago, on the ministry of health is website it was stated that 1,835,000 ron  379,665 eur  of fines were applied to 120 persons for not respecting the measure of isolation. that is an average of 15,291 ron  3,163 eur  per person.  so the fines for breaking isolation/quarantine are quite large  plus getting a criminal record for more severe situations . for reference, the minimum net wage in romania is 1,346 ron  278 eur  while the average net wage is 3,189 ron  659 eur . so for a large number of people, the fines are quite large.  	
i am a stem teaching assistant. i know some professors were using physical class materials in engineering classes. how do you think they should respond to covid-19-forced online education and still ensure the quality of their classes   it is a purposefully broad question. i was curious to hear what you think about the near term or futuristic/ideal approaches that could change stem education.   answer it seems that pretty much everything must now be done in virtual space. and, of course, this is hard to arrange in the short term. but in addition to videos, there is the possibility of software to provide hands-on simulation in some cases. it might be worth the effort in some fields to pair up  virtually  with a good programmer who can build quick simulations for student use. these can be refined later.   the really hard fields, though, are things like training surgeons, but even there, simulation can get you partway home.   some fields, maybe physics, already have a lot of simulation software that is normally used. so some people have experience building such things. see if your university has someone or can find someone to help.  	
how to protect yourself from covid-19 answer as covid-19 is spread through droplets, it can reach us through the air. therefore, maintain social distancing, which means remaining 6 feet away from others. ideally, you should not touch any surface on which droplets may have landed. the best way to protect yourself from exposed surfaces is to wash your hands frequently with soap and water for a count of 20. the children is book coronavirus you can not scare me teaches kids through pictures and rhyme:  i wash my hands throughout the day/ and count from one to twenty/ the palms, the backs, the fingernails/ with soap and water plenty.  coronavirus you can not scare me written by the author the best way to ensure you are doing all the above is to stay home if you can. talk to your friends and family on the phone, social media, skype or zoom.	
so how can i tell the difference between someone who just has allergies and somebody who has something worse  answer so there is some overlap. but there are key differences, too. i have spoken to a bunch of allergists about this. and here is one very important distinction - fever is a symptom of covid-19, but it is not a symptom of seasonal allergies. with all of that pollen starting to develop around the country, a lot of people are sneezing and will have a runny nose. these are typical symptoms of seasonal allergies but not necessarily typical of coronavirus. cough is another very important distinction. coughing is usually not a main symptom of seasonal allergies, but it is a key symptom of covid-19, especially a dry cough.	
as we know that us government announced  2t covid-19 stimulus package on march 24. it includes a payout of  1200 to all taxpayers.   who are the individuals who will get that benefit  is it all us taxpayers or only us citizens  will a resident alien on work visa, who pays taxes, get that benefit as well   answer no, you do not have to prove your citizenship, because the payment is not only for us citizens. it is for all us citizens or  resident aliens  for tax purposes, who have a social security number, make less than the income threshold  it phases out at an agi of between  75,000 and  99,000 for single filers and  150,000 and  198,000 for joint filers , and cannot be claimed by someone else as a dependent on their taxes.  the recovery rebates are provided in the cares act  text here , section 2201. the parts that limit eligibility for the rebate are the following:  the income limitation:     c  limitation based on adjusted gross income.--the amount of the  credit allowed by subsection  a   determined without regard to this  subsection and subsection  e   shall be reduced  but not below zero   by 5 percent of so much of the taxpayer is adjusted gross income as  exceeds--     1   150,000 in the case of a joint return,     2   112,500 in the case of a head of household, and     3   75,000 in the case of a taxpayer not described in paragraph  1   or  2 .   disallowing it to nonresident aliens, people who can be claimed as dependents, and estates and trusts:     d  eligible individual.--for purposes of this section, the term   eligible individual  means any individual other than--     1  any nonresident alien individual,     2  any individual with respect to whom a deduction under section 151  is allowable to another taxpayer for a taxable year beginning in the  calendar year in which the individual is taxable year begins, and     3  an estate or trust.   and disallowing it to people who do not have a social security number  or whose spouses do not have a social security number if filing jointly :     g  identification number requirement.--     1  in general.--no credit shall be allowed under subsection  a  to an  eligible individual who does not include on the return of tax for the  taxable year--     a  such individual is valid identification number,     b  in the case of a joint return, the valid identification number of  such individual is spouse, and     c  in the case of any qualifying child taken into account under  subsection  a  2 , the valid identification number of such qualifying  child.     2  valid identification number.--     a  in general.--for purposes of paragraph  1 , the term  valid  identification number  means a social security number  as such term is  defined in section 24 h  7  .     b  adoption taxpayer identification number.--for purposes of paragraph   1  c , in the case of a qualifying child who is adopted or placed for  adoption, the term  valid identification number  shall include the  adoption taxpayer identification number of such child.     3  special rule for members of the armed forces.--paragraph  1  b   shall not apply in the case where at least 1 spouse was a member of  the armed forces of the united states at any time during the taxable  year and at least 1 spouse satisfies paragraph  1  a .     4  mathematical or clerical error authority.--any omission of a  correct valid identification number required under this subsection  shall be treated as a mathematical or clerical error for purposes of  applying section 6213 g  2  to such omission.   to answer your question, someone on a work visa will almost certainly qualify for the payment if their income is below the threshold, because they are  resident aliens  for tax purposes since they pass the substantial presence test  except maybe if they arrived this year , and they have social security numbers. 	
do pregnant women with suspected or confirmed covid-19 need to give birth by caesarean section  answer no. who advice is that caesarean sections should only be performed when medically justified. the mode of birth should be individualized and based on a woman is preferences alongside obstetric indications.	
i am travelling to bangkok and just got to know that i will be flying on a 22 year old thai airways boeing 777-200, how safe is it to fly on a plane this old     answer i think the myth here is that an older aircraft is not safer because of wear and tear. that is not really true due to maintenance requirements. if you want to, you could fly in a douglas dc-3  1930s aircraft  today if you had enough time and money to find the operator. any aircraft can be operated if it is still maintained.  the reason aircraft get retired from commercial airlines is generally they become expensive to maintain, not because they stopped being airworthy. airlines do not buy one airplane, they buy a fleet, which includes the maintenance portion. the larger picture there is you need   trained pilots mechanics to repair them available parts   it is  3 that will eventually drive an aircraft out of general use. delta, which flies the md-80/88/90 series, is set to retire the aircraft in 2022.    delta will remove the md-90 two-years earlier than previous plans to  realize fleet simplification benefits,  said jacobson during the airline is second quarter earnings call on july 11. the airline will replace the aircraft with ones from its current orderbook, which includes 77 airbus a220s sic, likely a320  and 144 airbus a321s and a321neos, he added.    the early retirement of some md-90s was understood to be to support the in-service fleet, with parts from the removed aircraft available to support operational aircraft.   in other words, delta cannibalized some of its fleet for parts, and may be actively doing so with its rolling retirement. mcdonnell-douglass  who made the planes  is now owned by boeing, and production of the md-90 ceased in 2000. these planes can still be flown after delta retires them, but delta will have a hard time  i.e. expensive  sourcing new parts, which makes less sense for an active carrier airline operating thousands of aircraft around the world. other aircraft of similar size are in production and their parts are more plentiful.  the planes will be sold to secondary carriers. you might have seen one in the news recently, when the us government chartered a flight with kalitta air  likely operating a 747-400  to evacuate us citizens exposed to the coronavirus. these companies operate smaller fleets and, since they get cheaper used aircraft, the increased cost of finding parts will be offset.  tl dr  the boeing 777 is still in production. it is as safe as any aircraft in commercial airline use, regardless of age. 	
how long does coronavirus stay  alive  on surfaces  answer up to three days, depending on the surface. according to a study funded by the us national institutes of health:    the novel coronavirus is viable up to 72 hours after being placed on stainless steel and plastic.  it was viable up to four hours after being placed on copper, and up to 24 hours after being put on cardboard.  in aerosols, it was viable for three hours.	
should you get tested for covid-19 if you have a mild cold  answer should you get tested for covid-19 if you have a mild cold  even if you have a fever, cough, severe cold or sore throat, you do not need to get tested for covid-19. but if you have travelled to a covid-19 affected country or have come in close contact with a person who has been laboratory-confirmed to be covid-19 positive then, if you fulfil these two additional criteria, you need to get tested for covid-19. for common cold one only needs regular treatment.	
how do you think next year is phd applications would be affected by the covid-19  will we be seeing less numbers or more  will they be more competitive   edit: mainly asking for applicants to the us and uk.  answer it is hard to be certain about the future.   there will be more positions because of government stimulus spending. more students will apply for phd programs because they cannot find jobs. as a result of chaos, fewer students will complete the eligibility requirements.   the most likely net effect is more applicants for more positions, but they will be less prepared. 	
are pets from a shelter safe to adopt  answer there is no reason to think that any animals, including shelter pets, in the united states might be a source of covid-19.	
how can my family and i prepare for covid-19  answer create a household plan of action to help protect your health and the health of those you care about in the event of an outbreak of covid-19 in your community:  talk with the people who need to be included in your plan, and discuss what to do if a covid-19 outbreak occurs in your community. plan ways to care for those who might be at greater risk for serious complications, particularly older adults and those with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease.  make sure they have access to several weeks of medications and supplies in case you need to stay home for prolonged periods of time.   get to know your neighbors and find out if your neighborhood has a website or social media page to stay connected. create a list of local organizations that you and your household can contact in the event you need access to information, healthcare services, support, and resources. create an emergency contact list of family, friends, neighbors, carpool drivers, health care providers, teachers, employers, the local public health department, and other community resources.  	
are there any open source projects that a novice data analyst and mathematician can do, to fight against covid-19 epidemic  i mean, i know that the best i can do is to stay away from people and now i have a laptop and plenty of time to work on some project. but the thing is that i do not know what kind of computations would be useful to save people.  i have ubuntu, libreoffice, r, python, and sagemath installed on my computer.  answer you might want to have a look at this kaggle initiative and this github repository with south korea data 	
how can i deal with grief during this time  answer one of the most important  things you can do to help manage your grief  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-grief- loss.html  includes acknowledging it in the first place.  the more we can say to ourselves and the people around us,  yes, these are meaningful losses,  the more seen and soothed we will feel,  lori gottlieb, a therapist and author, recently wrote in the times. ms. gottlieb recommends staying in the present as much as possible, versus thinking about the future or ruminating on things that have not happened yet. try the   both/and   http://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2020/03/a-therapists- guide-to-emotional-health-in-a-pandemic/608161/  method: let yourself feel your loss in the present while simultaneously promoting feelings of safety by taking actions like reading a book or video-chatting a friend. and realize that there is no one-size-fits-all for grief -- everyone expresses it differently. let yourself do whatever makes you feel best, whether that is taking some alone time in your room or stress-cooking.	
should i worry about covid-19  answer illness due to covid-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. however, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. it is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the covid-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones.  we can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. first and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings.	
my school is closed. when will it reopen  answer it depends. schools are closed for different lengths of time, and it is unclear when it will be safe to go back. some schools are trying learning-from-home programs, and others are offering free lunches for pick-up. ask your parents.	
i have heard about the saying  it is the economy stupid , but i am not sure about how true it is now.   let is use trump is approval as an example. even though there is a  rally around the flag effect  that is typical of leaders during crises  it is a lot smaller than governors and foreign leaders and especially president bush in 2001 , it does show that despite the stock market crashing, his approval continued to rise before presumably hitting a ceiling of about 46  on 538. for more context, in the years before, at 538, his approval was hovering at around 43  despite a relatively strong economy.   i have read that the economy is not affecting people is voting habits nearly as much as it used to. is that true   answer firstly, to address the example of the covid-19 pandemic, and its effect on the popularity of donald trump  the level of correlation between the performance of the economy and us presidential popularity is well studied. for example, lse research in 2013 found that presidential approval is highly sensitive to changes in the share index:    a positive change in the index, when controlling for other relevant  factors, on average produces an increase in the president is approval.   interestingly, the effect is even more pronounced when we look at  market acceleration or deceleration. when the market is growing at an  increasing rate, voters reward the president, but when growth is  decelerating, the president is punished.   you are right that president trump is current opinion polls would seem to buck this trend, as the stock market has plummeted, with the dow jones crashing around 8000 points since the end of february, while the president enjoys record high approval ratings of 49  according to gallup. however, i would argue that instead of an indication that these two measures are no longer intrinsically linked, they are rather an exception to the rule, precedent for which already exists.  we can, for example, consider the performance of the stock market in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, with the nyse and the nasdaq closing for almost a week, the dow jones falling 14 , and the nyse market falling by 7.1 , a record at the time. clearly in normal times, this would have led to a dramatic fall in presidential approval. however, as you note in your question, president bush is approval rating soared to around 90 , the highest ever for a us president, and would go on to gradually lower over his tenure as president.  another example might be the gulf war in 1991. although this took place in the middle of a recession, which had lowered the approval of president bush snr., his victory in the crisis gave him record approval ratings. this lead was, however, squandered over the next year, as gallup puts it:  americans  attention shifted from the persian gulf to the struggling u.s. economy . he would, of course, go on to lose the 1992 election to bill clinton.  it seems, therefore, that rather than this incongruency representing a break from the established conventional wisdom that presidential approval, and as a result, us political outcomes, mirrors the stock market, it is at least at the moment a reflection of previous examples of the  rally around the flag  effect that you note in your question. whether or not trump is approval rating continues to stay at this high level will depend on how his response to the crisis is judged by the american public.  secondly, to evaluate the scope of your question more generally, there is a growing body of research which seems to support your notion that the aforementioned link between the performance of the economy and the electoral outcomes of incumbent politicians is becoming weaker, at least in the us.   for example, the nyt conducted a survey  notably before the current pandemic  weighted to match the demographic profile of the population of the united states, in which public opinion regarding trump is handling of the economy was tested. the full results can be found here. their analysis suggests that:    economic conditions have historically been among the best predictors  of presidential elections, and models based on those patterns suggest  that mr. trump would be favored to win re-election if the economy  remains more or less on its current path through election day. but it  is unclear whether historical lessons hold in an era of heightened  partisanship.   in particular, surveymonkey, who conducted the poll, note that    when asked which political party in general does a better job handling  the economy, the public is locked in a 45-45 deadlock. republicans  overwhelmingly  95   favor the republican party, while democrats  overwhelmingly  88   favor the democratic party. independents are  split, with 39  favoring the democrats and 36  favoring the  republicans.   it would seem according to this research, that although  jobs and the economy  remains the most important issue for the largest proportion  24   of the survey participants, their other partisan beliefs are unlikely to shake their party loyalty in the wake of a change in economic fortunes.  in addition, 538 has a great article on this, which i will not go into too much detail on because this answer is already pretty long, but in particular, silver notes that:    in particular, we do not have enough data to make overly specific  claims about the economy. that is, any time you see what you might  call a  magic bullet  claim, such as that second-quarter gdp is  crucial or that per-capita disposable income is the key economic  variable, you should be wary.   although he also echoes the misgivings of the nyt article, that partisanship could dull the response to a recession, he maintains that the performance of the economy is still very important to the outcome for the incumbent party -  the better off america is by november, the more likely he is to be re-elected.   in conclusion, then, although there is evidence to suggest that the conventional link between the economy and the fate of incumbent officials is weakening due to increased polarization and partisanship, the link is still undeniably extant. while in this specific case around the covid-19 pandemic the incongruency can perhaps be explained by the  rally  round the flag  effect, it seems likely that the ultimate fate of trump is 2020 campaign will be defined by his response to the pandemic and the underlying economical issues over the coming months. it is still far too early, in my opinion, to write off our conventional knowledge based on a few opinion polls conducted during a crisis. 	
what are the symptoms of coronavirus  answer the most common symptoms of covid-19 are fever, tiredness, and a dry cough. in the uk, people are being advised to stay at home for seven days if they have either a high temperature  they feel hot to touch on their chest or back  or a new, continuous cough - or 14 days if they live with other people.  everyone who gets symptoms gets a fever,  says operation ouch is dr xand. he added:  most of the people who get a fever get tired. a lot of the people who get tired get achy muscles and a lot of those people get a cough. one of the things that does not seem to be very common is sneezing.  the who says the illness it causes is  generally mild, especially for children and young adults , but around one in five people who get the virus become seriously ill and develop difficulty breathing. dr chris added:  if you have difficulty breathing, go to hospital. 	
is there any global database that enables the stochastic analysis of questions such as age distribution of fatalities, etc    a google search produced only a who article database: http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/global-research-on-novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov  update:    kaggle  arcgis dashboard    answer i recommend this github project from the johns hopkins university center for systems science and engineering  jhu csse :  http://github.com/cssegisanddata/covid-19  they collect the official numbers from different organizations and ministries from all over the world and update their repository every day. they do not provide information about the age of patients though.  there is a japanese project, however, which provides also some age information: http://covid19japan.com/ but the japanese people seem to be very disciplined and have a very low infection rate at the moment.  update: i found a database with german covid-19 cases including age information: http://npgeo-corona-npgeo-de.hub.arcgis.com/datasets/dd4580c810204019a7b8eb3e0b329dd6 0  from the same company  esri  there are a lot more data sets online also for covid-19. one might have to search for age information, though. http://coronavirus-resources.esri.com/ 	
while the irs has a page on the coronavirus impact is there any resource on handling the various state income taxes. are they extended like the federal income tax or do i have some relief due the declining economic conditions   edit: this is more of a placeholder question for my answer below, which provides a link to a us professional accounting association resource.  answer a resource where individuals and small business owners can check is:  the american institute of certified professional accountants document on coronavirus state filing relief  the document is broken down by state and has links to the various state income tax agencies. as the situation is changing, the document is being updated  although i do not know how frequently, but as of march 21, 2020 there appear to be march 20 updates .  given that the situation is fluid please check the above document has been updated for the states you are interested in. and be aware that further changes are possible for your states of interest.  additionally here is the link to aicpa coronavirus resource center 	
if a person is sick with the coronavirus and gets tested for the flu, would the flu test be positive  answer no, the presence of the coronavirus would not turn a flu test positive.however, it is possible to have both the coronavirus and the flu at the sametime. in that case, the flu test would be positive.the opposite is also true: presence of the flu would not result in a positivecoronavirus test. it is important to note that, even if someone tests negativefor the coronavirus, they still may be infected with the coronavirus.	
i do not have any background in genetics and bioinformatics, so i ask you if you think that the arguments provided in the article the proximal origin of sars-cov-2 by andersen et al. are convincing. in particular:    while the analyses above suggest that sars-cov-2 may bind human ace2 with high affinity, computational analyses predict that the interaction is not ideal and that the rbd sequence is different from those shown in sars-cov to be optimal for receptor binding. thus, the high-affinity binding of the sars-cov-2 spike protein to human ace2 is most likely the result of natural selection...   i interpret this passage as  if the virus had been engineered, they would have done a better job . is this interpretation correct  and if it is, does it sound convincing to you as a proof that the virus developed in nature   the second motivation given in the article is the following:    furthermore, if genetic manipulation had been performed, one of the several reverse-genetic systems available for betacoronaviruses would probably have been used   again, do you think that this exclude the possibility of a human intervention in the creation of the virus   thank you for your opinions.  edit: i am a fan of occam razor, i know that the scenario in which the virus originated in the wild is by far more likely than the human engineered scenario. i just want to know if, given our current knowledge in genetics, would have been possible for some high skilled researchers to engineered covid19  without implying that they did this with any bad purpose    edit 2: i share the concerns of the author of this post, that is, that the findings of the article are merely opinions and some of arguments are misleading. anyone having a solid technical background can comment on this  china owns nature magazine is ass - debunking  the proximal origin of sars-cov-2  claiming covid-19 definitely was not from a lab  answer in summary, the authors are saying the complete opposite of  human intervention .    while the analyses above suggest that sars-cov-2 may bind human ace2  with high affinity, computational analyses predict that the  interaction is not ideal and that the rbd sequence is different from  those shown in sars-cov to be optimal for receptor binding.   the interaction with ace2 is taking place on the spike protein  s  in both covid-19 and sars-cov. the s protein is very different between covid-19 and sars both in terms of sequence and covid-19 includes an additional furin cleavage site, meaning structurally it is quite distinct. the  computational analysis predicts  is difficult because there is no crystal structure for covid-19 s protein therefore modelling ligand binding is essentially guess work, particularly as it comprises an additional  furin  cleaved domain. what the authors appear to conclude is that they cannot map ace2-spike binding of covid-19 using an established sars s protein structure. i assume they are homology modelling sars-cov onto covid-19 s protein sequence data. in my personal opinion there is no way to homology model an additional furin protease cleavage site  furin is a host protease  so it would be difficult for  good fit  to occur, but it is just my opinion and the authors may have established methods to overcome this notable limitation, e.g. similar phenomena occur in influenza.     thus, the high-affinity binding of the sars-cov-2 spike protein to  human ace2 is most likely the result of natural selection..   their conclusion of  natural selection  is not strictly accurate and should be  darwinian positive selection , but its a small issue. what they are saying is darwinian adaptation has occurred as opposed to  purifying selection, i.e. conservation. thus they are definitely excluding human intervention because that is not  natural selection     furthermore, if genetic manipulation had been performed, one of the  several reverse-genetic systems available for betacoronaviruses would  probably have been used   they appear to be saying that if a synthetic virus was constructed it would be created using an established reverse genetics system, and all those produced to date look nothing like covid-19.  the phylogenetics argument is always a stronger argument than either of the above  although my opinion is not entirely objective . phylogeneticists have had a long history in opposing conspiracy theories, e.g. polio vaccination, hiv and the list goes on, so it is much more natural territory. an example of such an argument is here which  terdon helpfully pointed out. 	
what are the key considerations for countries that are working to eliminate malaria or prevent re-establishment of transmission  answer all of the considerations described above apply to malaria-eliminating countries and those preventing re-establishment of the disease: efforts must be sustained to prevent, detect and treat malaria cases while preventing the spread of covid-19 and ensuring the safety of those who deliver the services. countries that are nearing malaria elimination must protect their important gains and avoid malaria resurgences. countries that have eliminated malaria must remain vigilant for any imported cases of malaria that may be occurring to prevent reintroduction of the disease.	
what are the symptoms of covid-19  answer the world health organisation  who  advises that the most common symptoms are fever, tiredness, and a dry cough. the who says about 80 per cent of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment. growing evidence suggests that loss of smell and taste are also symptoms of having the coronavirus. more...	
do i have to apply to receive a payment  answer    no. if you qualify, the internal revenue service already has your bank account information, it will transfer the money to you via direct deposit based on the recent income-tax figures it already has. treasury secretary steven mnuchin  said  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/world/coronavirus- news-live.html link-6b422738  he expected most people to get their payments in april.	
in light of the recent pandemic of covid-19 spreading in the world, there have been many chinese papers with only english abstracts published in chinese journals. some western papers have cited the chinese papers, but only based on the abstract as the author would say they do not understand the chinese full text.   i am a graduate student in the medical field with a good grasp of chinese and english. can i translate without permission, or offer to translate, these papers and publish in an indexed english journal/source  if i make the offer, what is the appropriate etiquette and considerations    answer at the scale of one person, you could do the following. if you find a paper that you think merits translation, contact the authors and offer your services directly to them. they might not be able to help much if their research is ongoing, but would, i think, respond positively. you could also suggest appropriate english language journals to them that might publish the translations. i can not predict how that would work, but archives might be appropriate.   i think that a lot of researchers in china  as everywhere  have a working knowledge of english and so could probably vet any translations you do for accuracy.   as for the etiquette, just ask, introducing yourself. or even send along a sample translation of a part of a paper as a calling card.   i do not think that copyright can be ignored unless governments intervene to change the rules. it might happen due to the seriousness of the issue.   but being in contact with researchers who have been with this since the beginning might actually be an advantage to your career also.  	
i am in the uk. i would like to flee to china to avoid the coronavirus outbreak.  what would be the best way to achieve this  i was applying for a tefl program there earlier this year- it is currently not cancelled but who knows at this point. the program does not begin until august however, and that is assuming i am accepted.  if this is the best option, how can i best ensure that the outbreak here will not limit my chances   besides the obvious  do not die of coronavirus  .  answer at this time it is best to stay home, self isolate and only go out if you really need to.   in some countries the number of infected people is lower, or already going down, as in the first area that had been infected, but that is because of containment and isolation measures. it is expected that a new or second wave will come, again leading to restrictions. and likely no country in the world will escape while accepting people to visit or move in.   if you travel from the uk to somewhere else in the world, there is a huge risk of you spreading the virus. that will be for the for the next few months at least, but more likely for at least a year, or even a few years.  this is the negative view, but it is realistic.    for now there are huge travel restrictions, to avoid spreading the virus but also not to get people stuck far from home in a country where they do not have a support structure and an established life. that might have changed by summer but it may also stay longer, nobody can predict things like that at the moment. 	
should you wipe down all of your groceries when you return from the store  answer while the sars-cov-2 virus can linger on surfaces from anywhere to a couple of hours to a few days, dr. isaac bogoch said it is not necessary to wipe down groceries after buying them at the store.   i think if people go to the grocery store, they get groceries, i think it is just fair to put them away,  he told ctv is your morning.  as for fruits and vegetables, bogoch said there is no need to take any extra precautions with those and people can simply wash them with tap water before eating them, as they normally should.   	
we are seeing different values for how long this virus can persist on surfaces with the more recent data suggesting: copper 4 hours, plastic  amp  stainless steel 3 days and, other studies stainless steel 9 days.  what is the latest data   answer an early release paper dated 23 march 2020 is now staying that sars-cov-2 rna has been recovered 17 days after both infected and asymptomatic presumed infected passengers left the cabins of the diamond pricess cruise ship.  the discovery of virus on surfaces of asymptomatic passengers again demonstrates that viral shedding occurs in this phase in amounts sufficient to contaminate the environment.    sars-cov-2 rna was identified on a variety of surfaces in cabins of both symptomatic and asymptomatic infected passengers up to 17 days after cabins were vacated on the diamond princess but before disinfection procedures had been conducted  takuya yamagishi, national institute of infectious diseases, personal communication, 2020 . although these data cannot be used to determine whether transmission occurred from contaminated surfaces, further study of fomite transmission of sars-cov-2 aboard cruise ships is warranted.   http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6912e3.htm  public health responses to covid-19 outbreaks on cruise ships -- worldwide, february-march 2020  early release / march 23, 2020 / 69 	
should people in their 60s be concerned  are they considered elderly  answer as with seasonal flu, people at highest risk for severe disease and death include people over the age of 60 and those with underlying conditions, according to the world health organization.     starting at age 60, there is an increasing risk of disease and the risk increases with age. the highest risk of serious illness and death is in people older than 80 years,  nancy messonnier, director of the cdc is national center for immunization and respiratory diseases, told reporters in a recent telebriefing.    the cdc recommends that people over 60 stock up on supplies, keep away from others who are sick, limit close contact, wash hands often, avoid crowds as much as possible, avoid cruises and do not fly on planes unless absolutely necessary.	
should i be tested for covid-19  answer not everyone needs to be tested for covid-19. for information about testing, see testing for covid-19.	
how quickly would boiling water kill coronavirus   there are numerous articles telling us to disinfect groceries - wash all packages with soap and water and then disinfect with wipes, also wash produce.  for example: http://www.healthline.com/health-news/worried-about-contaminated-groceries-how-to-be-safe   ... wiping down all packaging with a disinfectant before putting your groceries away    for fruits and vegetables, vanwingen suggests scrubbing them for at least 20 seconds with soap and water   however, disinfecting wipes and disinfecting bleach as well as rubbing alcohol are all sold out and we may never see them again  until it is too late . and soap and water are not enough - plastic containers are covered with ridges and crevices  potentially filled with deadly droplets . washing them all is impossible.   but many of us still have running water and electricity. so, it is trivial to boil a large pot of water and dip all packages and even produce in it. but is it effective  how long to dip  i guess there were no study yet about modern covid-19 but there must have been some studies about older coronaviruses. does anybody know   answer the accepted knowledge is that boiling water for 1 minute kills viruses. however, that is not necessary for sars-cov-2. any food you eat is going to be cooked for longer than a minute, and packaging can left for a couple of days for the virus to inactivate naturally.    the standard recommendation for boiling water is a full rolling boil for one minute and cool before use. the term rolling boil facilitates communication and assures that an effective pasteurization temperature is reached to kill or inactivate waterborne pathogens. some agencies recommend boiling for longer periods, but this extra time is not necessary and can cause unnecessary power demand and increase safety concerns.   for cardboard boxes:    on cardboard, no viable sars-cov-2 was measured after 24 hours   and on plastics/stainless steel    sars-cov-2 was more stable on plastic and stainless steel than on copper and cardboard, and viable virus was detected up to 72 hours after application to these surfaces  figure 1a , although the virus titer was greatly reduced  from 103.7 to 100.6 tcid50 per milliliter of medium after 72 hours on plastic and from 103.7 to 100.6 tcid50 per milliliter after 48 hours on stainless steel .   so, it can last for 72 hours at least though at greatly diminished amounts of viable virus. so, use soap/water to wipe these surfaces down. soap disrupts the virus capsule, and also forms a surfactant around the virus so it can be dislodged from surfaces. some people do recommend you wash your vegetables of unknown provenance in soap and water.   http://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/water/drinking/boilwater/response information public health professional.htm  http://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/nejmc2004973 	
can you contract two viruses at the same time, such as new coronavirus and the flu  answer while it is still unclear if someone can contract the new coronavirus more than once, it is possible to have more than one different virus at the same time.  dr. isaac bogoch said it is absolutely possible for someone to have covid-19 and a strain of the flu or another virus simultaneously.   we sound like broken records in the medical and scientific community, but for the last two months we have been saying  we have got to prepare for this. we have got to prepare for this. optimize your health,   he told ctv is your morning on march 20.  bogoch said people should  optimize  their health by getting vaccinated for everything that they are eligible to be vaccinated for, such as influenza or bacterial pneumonias.   it is totally possible to have what is called a co-infection and we know people who have multiple infections at the same time can have a worse outcome,  he said.  	
my prefix means to work together, and when written in full words, it means something almost rectangular. my infix is neves semit thgie semit enin in italy, and when written in full words, it means something usually rectangular. my suffix is indivisible, and when written in full words, it can end its own suffix. my whole, despite not being phileas fogg, unfortunately managed to travel the whole world in less than 80 days  but it is rarely written in full words .   note: the question can be a bit inappropriate, apologies to those who feels offended.   answer it is     covid-19   my prefix means to work together, and when written in full words, it means something almost rectangular.     co means to work together. when written in full is almost rectangular  colorado state in the us    my infix is neves semit thgie semit enin in italy, and when written in full words, it means something usually rectangular.    9 8 7   504 in roman numerals is div in reverse is vid. when written in full words could video, which are usually rectangular.   my suffix is indivisible, and when written in full words, it can end its own suffix.    19 is a prime number. when written in full is nineteen,  missing explanation    my whole, despite not being phileas fogg, unfortunately managed to travel the whole world in less than 80 days  but it is rarely written in full words .    covid-19 went on world tour in less than 80 days, and is rarely written as coronavirus  full words   	
a week ago spanish soccer team returned from milan and 1/3 of the team members have been tested positive for coronavirus, but none of them developed symptoms. they yet could develop since the incubation period is said to be up to 2 weeks, but it is said for there is people who is asymptomatic during the whole disease.   is there an estimate of how many people infected with sars-cov-2 are asymptomatic   answer  data to date suggest that 80  of infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15  are severe infection, requiring oxygen and 5  are critical infections, requiring ventilation.     http://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200306-sitrep-46-covid-19.pdf sfvrsn 96b04adf 2 	
will people have to pay taxes on the money when they file their tax returns next year  answer no. the money is not counted as taxable income. it is treated as a fully refundable tax credit against your 2020 taxes, meaning that you get the money even if you do not have any tax liability.	
i am building my first road bike. i have been an avid biker rider for quite sometime and always thought about getting a road bike, just never got around to it.  fast forward to now, my neighbor  pro rider  threw his scott cr1 carbon fiber frame in the dumpster along with a most carbon handlebar and cosmic wheel set. now that i acquired all this stuff for free, time to finally build a bike   my point of this post is first to get some advice on ... where to start  how do i find out what is compatible to this bike from a component group, to putting everything together etc.  i know i will not be able to do everything but i know i can get pretty far then i am planning on taking it to a local guy to do a tuneup before i get her out on the road.  i want to build as tough and reliable as possible on a budget  do not want to spend a ton but want a quality bike . let me know if anyone can help out with where to get started, also if you have parts for sale or anything or want to trade for something, i am wide open to that as well. picture is attached, let me know what year as well if anyone knows.   thanks david    answer  this frame is about 10 years old  the model was sold for a few years . there is a chance that there is a crack in the carbon fiber, which would be cause for concern. there are services that will perform non-destructive testing, and there are ways to perform inspections at home with somewhat less reliability, but that would be my first concern. it looks like the bottom bracket is intact. if the bearings turn smoothly, keep them. if not, you will want to replace them, which would probably be the most complex part of your build. it looks like this bike takes a pf86 bottom bracket  there are numerous standards . this bike was sold with a shimano 105 group  possibly other groups as well . 105 has good performance and good value, so you will not go wrong with that. you will obviously need caliper brakes, not disk, but that is about the only requirement from the options that will be available to you. it looks like it has a front derailleur braze-on, so you will need to make sure you get a compatible derailleur. there are a lot of other options that will be matters of personal taste. crankarm length, chainring tooth counts, cassette tooth counts, saddle, pedals, bar tape color, etc. this is not a marketplace or swap meet, so not a good place to find the parts you will need.  	
one question we often get on this site in one form or the other is: is my paper under review  or similar  for too long and if yes, how should i react  now, suppose i have gone through all the steps to answer this question in a normal situation: i have procured statistics of the journal is handling or peer-review times, added a fair margin for individual variability, etc. my question is: how should i modify these in lights of the ongoing covid-19 crisis  i do not want to bother editors more than appropriate.  the obvious thoughts are:   some reviewers and editors are busy with challenges arising due to the crisis, e.g., due to having to switch to online teaching, having no childcare, etc. on the other hand, some reviewers and editors now have more time available due to conferences being cancelled, not being able to access their labs, and similar. some fields are obviously directly affected by the crisis, in particular medicine, virology, and epidemiology. i am not considering those.   i am only interested in answers that go beyond such obvious thoughts, for example being based on experience as an editor. the ideal are answers based on statistics, but those likely do not exist yet  but will be welcome when they eventually will .  answer i am an associate editor for two journals, and although the situation is fairly new, i expect to have no substantive change in the time for me to handle papers.  the reasons for this are:   pretty much everything is handled purely electronically anyway, so there is no physical interaction to be disrupted. reviewing is typically a sparse activity by people who are mostly always overloaded anyway, and it is always fairly low triage for people. as such, i do not anticipate the availability of reviewers to particularly change: if people have more time, they will fill it with things more important to them  if people have less time, i will just have to ask a few more to find a full reviewer set. the time to review is typically dominated by the time that a manuscript ages quietly on the reviewer is desk before the review deadline arrives --- actually carrying out a review often does not take all that much time, by comparison. the number of weeks we give our reviewers is not going to change, so that dominating time will not either. because of the preceding factors, there is already a lot of stochasticity in time to review. even if it does go up a bit, i doubt it will be readily detectable against the background of stochasticity.  	
are hospitals authorised to stop attendants from entering  answer are hospitals authorised to stop attendants from entering  talk to your healthcare provider. given the circumstances, it is best to stay away from hospitals.	
president trump is presidential proclamation specifically defines the countries affected by the ban as the 26 signatories to the schengen treaty:    for purposes of this proclamation, the schengen area comprises 26  european states: austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, estonia,  finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, iceland, italy, latvia,  liechtenstein, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, netherlands, norway,  poland, portugal, slovakia, slovenia, spain, sweden, and switzerland.   however, four european states also maintain open or semi-open borders with the schengen area, namely andorra, monaco, san marino,  amp  vatican city. clearly travellers from these countries will also be subject to the separate ban on people that have visited schengen countries in the last 14 days, but considering the  semi open borders, there should be no way to definitively prove this status one way or the other.  are these countries exempt from the ban  is this an oversight by the trump administration, or do methods exist to identify travellers from these countries who have recently returned from the schengen area proper   answer given that none of these countries have their own international airports, and all but monaco are landlocked, it is effectively impossible for nationals of those microstates to reach the us without visiting a schengen country.   presumably, someone from monaco who travels by boat to the uk and flies from there could get away with entry or any nationals who are currently outside the schengen area, but i imagine the final decision will come down to an ice official who will compare the passport to a list of affected countries. 	
what should i do if i have had close contact with someone who has covid-19  answer there is information for people who have had close contact with a person confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, covid-19 available online.	
we have been sheltering in place for weeks. so why are the  peaks  of hospitalizations and deaths still yet to come  answer  there is a delay because the way it goes, you have people who get exposed  they get infected  the number of new infections, hospitalizations, critical care and deaths  follow ,  said dr. anthony fauci, director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases.    so even when you suppress or stabilize the number of new infections, it is still going to take a while before you see a decrease in hospitalizations, a decrease in intensive care, and a decrease in deaths. and in fact, deaths are the last thing that lag. so you could be doing well  with mitigation measures  and still see the deaths go up. 	
i was reading about a viral list of dubious coronavirus tips on the verge and reached this tip:     even if the virus gets into your mouth, drinking water or other  liquids will wash them down through your throat and into the stomach.  once there, your stomach acid will kill all the virus,  one tip reads.  loren rauch, an emergency room doctor in los angeles who has a  master is degree in epidemiology, told mother jones this advice was   totally bogus.    i asked a friend, who has a phd. in cell biology, about this and she said that it is true that a virus would be killed by the stomach acid  i.e. due to high acidity, or low ph value, of stomach acid which could easily break the structure of the virus   however, she added that it is not true to think that drinking water would wash the virus from your respiratory system  i.e. trachea or lungs  into your stomach, so drinking water regularly does not necessarily help if it is in your respiratory system.  i was a bit confused since the doctor referenced in the article considered the whole advice as totally false  on the other hand, my friend thinks at least part of the advice, i.e. the virus being killed by stomach acid, is true.  now, my question is not limited to coronavirus and i am not seeking medical advice or treatment here. i just want to know if my friend is scientifically correct, i.e. whether stomach acid is able to destroy the biological structure of a virus  any virus, and not necessarily coronavirus   and if so, how does this work biologically   answer study on mers coronavirus and hcov-229e:  rapidly lost most of the infectivity in fasted-state simulated gastric fluid  fassgf  ph 2.0   but  survived fessgf   fed state, which is less acidic . see figure 3. iow, on empty stomach, the gastric acid rapidly deactivate the mers coronavirus and the 229e coronavirus, but if there is food in the stomach then the virus survives.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5687858/ 	
can the virus that causes covid-19 be transmitted through the air  answer studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air.	
would a scarf work  answer probably not as well as a mask that fits closely to your face.  you can imagine if you put a loosely knit scarf with lots of holes in it ... that would not be very effective,  says dr. michael klompas, an infectious disease physician at brigham and women is hospital. the goal is to create a barrier that catches droplets and keeps others from coming in, so you want coverage that is tightly woven and close-fitting.	
my wife had a return flight ticket from seoul to barcelona via istanbul at turkish airlines for march 6th. we received a mail today  march 2nd  saying please call our call center. we called and they said the flight was cancelled. they gave us the options for a refund or change. when asking which changes were possible, they offered the same flight for the 11th of march. i asked if there could be some problem because of the novel coronavirus and they said they had no information. we changed our flight to march 11th, because they said that if the same happened again and it was cancelled again we could get the refund.  now i have learnt in iata is list  http://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-news/1580226297.htm, update from march 1st  about turkish ban of non-turkish nationals who have been to korea recently. i think it is not likely this ban will disappear soon  right   so we are looking for alternatives like flights via germany or direct flights to barcelona.  now i am worried that if turkish airlines actually does their march 11th flight but they do not let any non-turkish nationals on, they may argue that no refund is possible because it is the passenger responsibility to check that they have all the rights to enter the countries for every layover, at the time they get the flight. are we going to get a refund  i called the call center again but they said they had no information about this.  my wife is korean but she is currently living in the eu. i think they should have known that because of my wife is nationality she was not allowed to travel. the ticket fare was the cheapest, no cancellations allowed. we had booked the 1st flight before the novel coronavirus was discovered.  answer you are correct, that it is the passenger is responsibility to check that they have all the rights to enter the countries for every layover. in particular, if you are not allowed to board, then turkish airlines will not be required to give any compensation.  the good news is, that the travel advisory does not prohibit people from transiting through turkey. in fact, since practically all europe -- us flights are cancelled due to the travel bans of both countries, this is the currently the cheapest way for me to transit between the two, given that i have the right to enter both. get on a turkish airlines flight from europe to istanbul, and from there a turkish airlines flight from istanbul to the us. since turkey is not on the travel ban of either country, the flights continue as planned. also, since i am not  entering  turkey but merely transiting through it, this is also allowed by turkey.  p.s., i am aware that this particular flight had been cancelled  the above is general advice for others in the same situation. 	
many human coronaviruses have ancestral host origins in species of bat. however, all instances i am aware of identified other animals as intermediary vectors:   sars-cov: human - palm civet / raccoon - bat mers-cov: human - dromedary camel - bat hcov-229e: human - alpaca - bat   are there any known cases of direct bat to human transmission of coronavirus     source: bats and coronaviruses, viruses  2019    answer it is possible, but unconfirmed, that the first incidents of sars-cov were directly infected by bats, and that palm civits were infected parallelly:    the new study demonstrates that chinese horseshoe bats harbor a pair of sars like viruses that are very closely related to the strain that caused the 2003-2004 pandemic and that these strains have the capacity to directly infect human cells and civet cat cells as well as bat cells. these findings suggest that bats may have directly infected humans and that civet cats may have been incidentally infected.    more evidence emerges that bats may have spread sars, jama  2013   	
i am planning a trip to the netherlands mid-april, and i have already made reservations. i understand that because of the current coronavirus pandemic, i may have to postpone my trip or cancel it entirely.  however, instead of deciding now, i would like to decide later  in april  if i should continue with my trip plans or cancel it  depending on travel advisories issued by my country  india  and the netherlands, which would apply at that time . which requires that i proceed with my visa application now  as i must apply at least 15 working days earlier . i understand that it is quite likely that i may have to cancel or postpone my trip  the global travel situation seems unlikely to get better by next month, but i want to stay optimistic, or at least not regret that i could have applied for visa in march if situations in mid-april do get favourable for a trip .  my concern is if the current coronavirus pandemic can be cited as a reason for visa refusal by the netherlands embassy. i.e., does the current pandemic increase the likelihood of visa refusal when compared to normal circumstances  are there any rules in visa policy of schengen area that concern with situations like this   update: to clarify, my concern here is if the current pandemic will increase the likelihood of visa refusal.  whether or not i will be able to travel to the netherlands in april is a different issue . the reason i am separating these two concerns is because with new eu visa rules, i may qualify for a long validity visa  as i have been issued multiple schengen visas in past , so if in the unfortunate case i have to postpone my april trip, i can do so  amp  re-plan on a much shorter notice. whereas if i do not apply for a visa now and do so later, i will have to plan for weeks in advance again  as i must apply for a visa 15 working days / 3 weeks in advance .  update: if the netherlands issues a travel restriction in near future, will that result in a visa refusal or application rejection   answer there are restrictions in place, but afaik no current restrictions for indian citizens/residents applying for dutch visa. on the other hand, the czech republic closed their visa processing centers in china and hong kong several weeks ago, effectively preventing residents of china from applying for a czech visa. it is at the moment difficult to predict what happens tomorrow or in the next days, but it is of course not impossible, that more schengen countries will follow and impose restrictions on visa issuance.  independent of the visa, it may also by mid-april be impossible to travel to the netherlands. several schengen countries have today or in the past few days established very strict travel regulations or bans, effectively preventing many or most tourists and visitors from entering. 	
how can i prevent myself getting coronavirus  answer the best way to avoid catching coronavirus from touching a contaminated surface is to wash your hands properly and avoid touching your face.  you should also wash your hands:  after you use the bathroom  after you cough or sneeze  after taking public transport  before eating and preparing food  after touching animals  when caring for someone who is sick	
in the abstract of this paper authors said in abstract of that paper entitled simulation of the ac corona phenomenon with experimental validation :    .....,this phenomenon is also associated with components used in the power industry where it is, in many cases, the source of electro-magnetic disturbance, noise and production of undesired chemically active species  , now my question here is : is there any connection between this topic ac corona and corona virus since ac corona produce undesired chemically active species   in my guess according to the contenent of the titled paper this coronaviruse is a human production not come randomly from nature    edit: what they meant by production of undesired chemically active species   does this meant from ac corona we may produce undesired chemically species which means a such virus derived from ac coron    answer  corona  is latin for  crown.  it is used the names of many unrelated objects.  a  corona virus  has a layer of spiky proteins around its surface, so it looks like a crown under an electron microscope.  an electrical coronal discharge happens when the electric field near an object is high enough to ionize the air  it makes a spiky glow that looks kind of like a crown. the ionized air molecules can participate in chemical reactions that are not available to neutral air molecules, and that chemistry is a factor in the aging of high-voltage electrical systems.  in your abstract they write that most modeling of coronal discharges are of direct-current discharges, while they focus on alternating- current  ac  discharges. for an example of the difference between anode and cathode chemistry, see this post. 	
the us government suspended travel from europe to us, except for countries which are not in the schengen area such as the uk and ireland.  many comments from eu leader seem to assume that this is a political decision rather than a health-based decision, especially with regard to this exception.  is there any official rationale for this exception   answer the official rationale, according to trump is presidential proclamation, is that the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  could become overwhelmed  if sustained human-to-human transmission of the virus occurred in the united states on a large scale . it continues:    the world health organization has determined that multiple countries  within the schengen area are experiencing sustained person-to-person  transmission of sars-cov-2.     ...     the schengen area currently has the largest number of confirmed  covid-19 cases outside of the people is republic of china. as of march  11, 2020, the number of cases in the 26 schengen area countries is  17,442, with 711 deaths, and shows high continuous growth in infection  rates. in total, as of march 9, 2020, the schengen area has exported  201 covid-19 cases to 53 countries. moreover, the free flow of people  between the schengen area countries makes the task of managing the  spread of the virus difficult.    the united states government is unable to effectively evaluate and  monitor all of the travelers continuing to arrive from the schengen  area. the potential for undetected transmission of the virus by  infected individuals seeking to enter the united states from the  schengen area threatens the security of our transportation system and  infrastructure and the national security. given the importance of  protecting persons within the united states from the threat of this  harmful communicable disease, i have determined that it is in the  interests of the united states to take action to restrict and suspend  the entry into the united states, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of  all aliens who were physically present within the schengen area during  the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the  united states.   the reasoning exposed in the proclamation, then, is that due to the lack of travel restrictions between schengen countries, it is far harder to manage the spread of the disease by controlling inter-schengen migration. this factor is attributed by the proclamation as the main cause of community spread throughout the 26 member countries, and even goes as far as to tacitly blame the international spread of the disease on the area.  at a practical level, consider someone arriving to the usa from slovenia, a member of the schengen area. while slovenia itself only has 31 cases currently, it is impossible for usa immigration officials to tell whether that person has just driven from italy, which has over 10,000 cases. as a result, the trump administration seems to have decided that the best way to deal with this issue is a blanket ban  with some exceptions, e.g. us citizens, travellers invited by the us to aid efforts against covid-19 etc. see proclamation for full details  on travel from the schengen area countries and visitors who have visited the area within the last 14 days, the incubation period of the disease.  travellers from a non-schengen area, however, seem to be presumed to be able to prove that they have not been in any schengen countries in the last 14 days by their passport records, and as such the level of risk they pose should be able to be more easily evaluated.  however, as pointed out in the comments, inter-european travel does not involve passport stamping in some cases, for example from italy to the uk, so it will be difficult to identify these travellers practically. it is unclear how immigration officials will mitigate this.  the reasoning of the proclamation, however, remains that travel restrictions could be easily imposed between, to use our example, italy and the uk, meaning that travellers from the uk are lower risk.  update 14/03: the travel ban has now been extended to the uk and ireland, which calls into question the original official rationale, but does not change it. 	
there are lots of news headlines on 3/9/2020 that read like this:     saudi oil price cut is a market shock      oil price war threatens widespread collateral damage      low oil prices could damage the us economy    however, in one of those articles, it also states things like this:    big importing nations could get some much needed relief from falling energy bills ... consumers benefit in general from lower oil prices ...   should not lower oil price lower the cost for lots of industries  except the oil/energy industry , stimulate the economy and as a consequence buoy the stock market  what am i missing here   answer there is a lot going on right now. market volatility rose over the past 2 weeks on the news that covid-19 cases are growing exponentially. it would be folly to try and correlate a large move on a particular day to other seemingly unrelated news.   for that matter, in the midst of people trying to avoid crowds, many industries might suffer. airlines, cruise ships, any function where large groups might gather. say the payroll tax is briefly suspended. the  50k earner sees  70/wk more in their paycheck. will that counter their desire to avoid the crowd  airlines can not fill seats at any price. where will that  70 go  probably to pay the next rent or utility bill. zero effect on the economy.   the impact of opec failing to reach an agreement might have had far different results in normal times, if such a thing exists.  	
due to the spread of the coronavirus my organization is recommending  essentially mandating  that all employees work from home  wfh  until further notice. i was planning on traveling to canada from nyc until the wfh policy is lifted.  i have no reason to expect that i was exposed, and would like to stay in canada with my family for as long as possible.  since i am working in the usa on a tn visa, is there a maximum amount of time i can spend outside of the usa   this site seems to suggest that if my i-94 is not expired on return i will be fine.  answer there is no limit. even if you try to return after the expiration of your i-94, you can just reapply for admission as you did the first time you entered in tn status. 	
my eating habits have drastically changed. how can i better manage them  answer of course, eating too much or too little in the short term is not a huge cause of concern for someone who is healthy,  experts said  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/well/how-to-manage-stress-eating-or- not-eating.html . but in the long term, moderation is important. your body is physical stress response may affect what kinds of foods you are reaching for, drawing you more toward carbohydrates and foods that are high in fat. take stock of how any stress and anxiety may have affected your eating habits. if you think you are snacking too much when you are not hungry, it may help to allow some time to pass and distract yourself with another activity before grabbing more food. try to add some healthy snacks like fruits and vegetables into your routine, if you can. if you are regularly not eating enough, find something you can tolerate eating, or drink a calorie-rich beverage, like a protein shake. if you are forgetting to eat entirely, schedule your mealtimes into your calendar and treat meals like any other essential appointment. you can also set alarms as a reminder to drink some water, or eat something.	
what are the symptoms of the coronavirus  answer common symptoms include fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common. some people have also reported  losing their sense of smell  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell- taste.html . most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.	
are pregnant women at higher risk from covid-19  answer research is currently underway to understand the impacts of covid 19 infection on pregnant women. data are limited, but at present there is no evidence that they are at higher risk of severe illness than the general population. however, due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, we know that pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections. it is therefore important that they take precautions to protect themselves against covid-19, and report possible symptoms  including fever, cough or difficulty breathing  to their healthcare provider.who will continue to review and update its information and advice as more evidence becomes available.	
are people living with hiv at increased risk of being infected with the virus that causes covid-19  answer people living with hiv with advanced disease, those with low cd4 and high viral load and those who are not taking antiretroviral treatment have an increased risk of infections and related complications in general. it is unknown if the immunosuppression of hiv will put a person at greater risk for covid-19, thus, until more is known, additional precautions for all people with advanced hiv or poorly controlled hiv, should be employed 1 , 2 .at present there is no evidence that the risk of infection or complications of covid-19 is different among people living with hiv who are clinically and immunologically stable on antiretroviral treatment when compared with the general population. some people living with hiv may have known risk factors for covid-19 complications, such as diabetes, hypertension and other noncommunicable diseases and as such may have increased risk of covid-19 unrelated to hiv. we know that during the sars and mers outbreaks there were only a few case reports of mild disease among people living with hiv. to date, there is a case report of a person living with hiv who had covid-19 and recovered 3  and a small study on risk factors and antiretrovirals used among people living with hiv with covid-19 from china. this study reported similar rates of covid-19 disease as compared to the entire population and increased risk with older age, but not with low cd4, high viral load level or antiretroviral regimen 4 . current clinical data suggest the main mortality risk factors are linked to older age and other comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and hypertension. some very healthy people have also developed severe disease from the coronavirus infection 5 . plhiv are advised to take the same precautions as the general population 6 , 7 : wash hands oftencough etiquette physical distancingseek medical care if symptomaticself-isolation if in contact with someone with covid-19 and other actions per the government response people living with hiv who are taking antiretroviral drugs should ensure that they have at least 30 days and up to 6-month supply of medicines and ensure that their vaccinations are up to date  influenza and pneumococcal vaccines . adequate supplies of medicines to treat co-infections and comorbidities and addiction should also be ensured.	
do i need to get my pet tested for covid-19  answer no. at this time, testing of animals for covid-19 is not recommended.	
should i avoid public transportation  answer if you rely on public transportation, use caution. if you are sick or live in an area where an outbreak has been reported, avoid it.   mass transit could increase your risk of exposure to coronavirus. luckily, transit systems are upping their cleaning regimens -- notably the new york subway system.   dr. robyn gershon, a professor of epidemiology at new york university is school of public health, has some tips: when you ride a bus or subway, sneeze or cough into your elbow. use a tissue to hold onto a pole. avoid touching your face while you are riding, and use hand sanitizer if you have it while you are commuting.   again, wash your hands before, during and after your trip.   new york gov. andrew cuomo recommends letting crowded trains or buses pass and waiting for a less crowded one. it is nearly impossible to maintain 6 feet of distance on a packed subway car.   if you have a chronic illness, find alternative means of transportation -- being in a crowded subway car or bus will significantly increase your risk of infection.	
how safe is it to visit a hospital  answer how safe is it to visit a hospital  it is not completely safe to visit a hospital, more so if you are above the age of 60 or suffering from comorbidities. however, if you have to visit the hospital for screening, dialysis etc, inform your healthcare official beforehand and make sure you wear a mask and maintain safe distance from others.	
will there be a second wave of infections  answer with public health officials warning that canadians must adhere to physical distancing policies in order to  flatten the curve  of infections, as hong kong and singapore successfully did, other experts are expressing concerns about a  second wave  of infections after those regions experienced another spike in cases when they relaxed some of those measures.  bogoch said that it is possible canada will experience a similar fate, if people are not diligent about maintaining isolation and physical distancing orders.   if we take our foot off the gas pedal, when we start to lift some of these measures because we start to see the curve flattening, we have to be prepared that there might be a second spike in cases,  he explained.   	
how do you know if you have a cold, the flu, or covid-19  answer those who are infected with covid-19 may have few to no symptoms, according to the public health agency of canada  phac . if symptoms are present, they can easily be mistaken for a common cold or the flu because of their similarities.  according to the health agency, the main symptoms of covid-19 are fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia in both lungs. in severe cases, the illness can even result in death.  the world health organization lists additional symptoms that have been documented in some covid-19 patients, including tiredness, aches and pains, sore throat, diarrhea, nausea and runny nose.  gorfinkel said clinicians can not distinguish between the illnesses based on symptoms alone. she said they can all present the same way, which is why the patient is travel history or history of exposure to the virus is so important in determining whether someone might have covid-19.   we do not have the facilities or the tests to test absolutely everybody, so that history of travel if you are basically otherwise well, that is a critical part of it,  she explained.	
will i be stopped if i am in my car and going outside the vicinity of my house to get essential items  answer will i be stopped if i am in my car and going outside the vicinity of my house to get essential items  no. all essential services like chemist, grocery, vegetable vendors will continue to operate and no one should stop you from going to get essential items.	
how can people who recently moved ensure they get their checks    answer if you received a refund in 2018 or 2019 via direct deposit to your bank account, and you did not change your bank account when you moved, you should be able to receive your rebate via direct deposit.  tax experts said that they think it would be helpful for the irs to provide guidance for taxpayers who have moved or have new bank accounts since they filed their most recent tax return.  under the bill, the irs has to send a notice to a taxpayer is last known address within 15 days of distributing a payment. the notice should provide information about the payment amount, the method used to make the payment and an irs phone number to report failures to receive the payment.	
in our choir, we are discussing measures to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus in our community. however, i lack understanding about how the virus spreads in a closed room. the german public health authority recommends  social distancing  of 1-2m.  however, in a choir, many people are singing all the time on the same location. singing also produce respiratory droplets  src1  and i do not know how long those droplets stay infective.     src1  states that droplets dry out within 2m. are coronaviruses only infective while suspended in these droplets  given the long exposition of the people to each other and the long duration of singing, are the recommendations of social distancing applicable to choirs    answer i do not understand any choir being compatible with any definition of social distancing. if the german govt is asking you to practice social distancing it means meeting another person at a distance. you can not continue your choir.    what is social distancing     social distancing measures are steps you can take to reduce the social interaction between people. this will help reduce the transmission of coronavirus  covid-19 .    they are:    avoid contact with someone who is displaying symptoms of coronavirus  covid-19 . these symptoms include high temperature and/or new and continuous cough    avoid non-essential use of public transport, varying your travel times to avoid rush hour, when possible    work from home, where possible. your employer should support you to do this. please refer to employer guidance for more information    avoid large gatherings, and gatherings in smaller public spaces such as pubs, cinemas, restaurants, theatres, bars, clubs    avoid gatherings with friends and family. keep in touch using remote technology such as phone, internet, and social media    use telephone or online services to contact your gp or other essential services   http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-guidance-on-social-distancing-and-for-vulnerable-people/guidance-on-social-distancing-for-everyone-in-the-uk-and-protecting-older-people-and-vulnerable-adults 	
according to reuters news agency, the director general of the world health organisation  who , tedros adhanom ghebreyesus told a news conference today  march 11th  that:    we are deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and  severity and by the alarming levels of inaction. we have therefore  made the assessment that covid-19 can be characterized as a pandemic,   the same article, however, cites unnamed who officials as saying that the term  pandemic  is just a descriptive word and does not carry any legal significance.  what significance, if any, does the characterisation that has been made today have   answer very little, practically speaking.  from the who:     describing the situation as a pandemic does not change who is assessment of the threat posed by this  coronavirus. it does not change what who is doing, and it does not change what countries should do -   drtedros   as discussed in this q amp a, the definition of  pandemic  is fairly arbitrary. it does identify this virus, both in the present day and in history, as particularly significant, but there is nothing magical that changes with this definition from a political  or epidemiological  perspective, and there appear to be no particular political consequences of the definition from the who is perspective.  that is, there are no special funds or protocols that are activated by declaring a  pandemic  the way you might expect for various  declarations of emergency , which often activate laws that change regulations and procedures during the emergency and may allow for release of funds marked for that purpose.  from the content of the announcement, it seems like the who is primary goal in making this declaration is to reiterate the severity of the situation rather than to mark any particular milestone or to alter any guidance or recommendations. 	
how long does the virus survive on surfaces  answer it is not certain how long the virus that causes covid-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. studies suggest that coronaviruses  including preliminary information on the covid-19 virus  may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. this may vary under different conditions  e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment .  if you think a surface may be infected, clean it with simple disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others. clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. avoid touching your eyes, mouth, or nose.	
in the us senate on sunday, march 22nd, democrats blocked the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security  cares  act in a 47-47 vote that was split along party lines. mcconnell indicated that he would try to pass the bill again on monday, ostensibly so that senators could see how markets would react to the lack of financial measures so far:    we are going to vote at 9:45 in the morning  1345 gmt  ... 15 minutes  after the markets open and see whether there is a change of heart,   this timing was not agreed to, with the debate continuing later in the day than planned, seemingly with no further bilateral progress made.  the first article also notes that democrats  decried the republican proposal as prioritising the needs of wall street and corporate america over those of average people. , and would  benefit corporate interests at the expense of hospitals, healthcare workers, cities and states . senator elizabeth warren, until recently a 2020 presidential candidate, told reporters that  we are not here to create a slush fund for donald trump and his family, or a slush fund for the treasury department to be able to hand out to their friends .  the summary of the bill, however, states that it provides funding for small businesses and individuals, which would seem to benefit the average person, and includes a raft of healthcare provisions, including  additional funding for the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of covid-19 , and  limits  on  liability for volunteer health care professionals  in order to help fight the disease.  which provisions in the bill specifically are opponents of the bill objecting to  which measures are seen as benefiting corporate america over individuals   answer democrats have been trying to make the case that the stimulus package contains within it a corporate  slush fund  controlled by the treasury department and headed by steve mnuchin, and democrats believe there is a high risk of mismanagement or outright corruption. from nymag:    the central flash point concerns a  500 billion corporate bailout.  ...    its requirements that bailed-out firms protect their workers are too weak.  protecting the workers is the whole rationale for bailing them out, after all -- at least from the democrats  point of view.  more disturbing, it is designed as a pool of money to be doled out by the treasury secretary. that is to say, the money is, for all intents and purposes, personally controlled by donald trump, who selected the treasury secretary, steve mnuchin, and could replace him on a whim.  ...   one obvious outcome of this financing arrangement would be to create the all-but-certain outcome that the treasury would select the trump organization as one of the worthy recipients of its largesse. trump is vacation properties have indeed been forced to shut down, and while an unbiased manager might not select the trump organization over needier coronavirus victims, trump himself probably thinks differently. indeed, at his press conference, the president did not even bring himself to deny that he might.  let is just see what happens,  he replied, as if the outcome might contain any mystery.   they also make the argument that the restrictions on the bailout fund that are in place to prevent some of the excesses by executives after the bailout of 2008 are weak, as are protections for workers who become unemployed. from politico:    according to a senior democratic aide, the party is concerns with the gop proposal center on  500 billion for corporations  stock buyback language that can be waived by the treasury secretary  only a two-year time frame on executive compensation limits  and no provisions to protect individuals from eviction.  ...  democrats also object to what they say is an insufficient amount of money for state and local governments and providing only three months of unemployment insurance. democrats initially asked for  750 billion in state aid, and republicans have countered with far less.   a further complication for the bill is the behavior by many of these firms and how they chose to spend money saved by the gop tax cut. instead of using that money to create rainy day funds, they instead used that money to repurchase stock in order to inflate executive compensation to the detriment of their workers. 	
we are about to exchange on a house but have been advised by the solicitor not to. when will restrictions on house purchases be lifted  answer there are currently no formal restrictions on moving house, although the government has strongly advised against it where possible. it says that while there is no need to pull out of transactions, buyers and renters should delay moving so they can observe social distancing and self-isolating guidelines.  if the house you are moving into is empty, it is fine to carry on as long as these rules are observed during the removals process. if the property is occupied, the government is encouraging the buyer and seller to find an alternative moving date further down the line.  mortgage lenders have also been tightening their restrictions, with some requiring a deposit of at least 25 . but this does not affect mortgages which have already been agreed. many lenders are offering customers who have already exchanged the option to extend their mortgage offer for up to three months so that they can move at a later date.  this timeframe may give you some idea of how long all of this could go on for, although nobody knows for sure.  the house buying process differs between scotland and england and wales, but the advice on delaying a move is the same.	
similar to this question but for the eu. i need to repatriate myself and my car from prague to london. ideally i would cross the czech/german, german/dutch, dutch/belgian, belgian/french, and french/british borders but the list of countries could be varied by increasing the length of my journey.  i am finding it very hard to tell if i will be denied entry at any of the borders i need to cross. all i can find are vague media reports which use phrases such as  limited to essential travel . it is not clear what constitutes essential travel, and specifically whether returning to my home country will be sufficient reason for a country to allow me in. for example, they may reason that i can return home by finding a route that bypasses them, and therefore it is not  essential  that i cross their border.  i hold a british passport, czech residency permit, and have homes in both countries. the uk is my primary residence.  i have a ferry booked from france -  uk and as far as i can tell entries are still permitted there.  are there any authoritative sources of information where i can find out exactly what the restrictions are within the eu  alternatively, individual sources for the countries i am travelling through would be helpful.  answer here is a part answer for the germany leg of your trip  coronavirus: fragen und antworten see the question  bei welchen dringenden grunden ist ein grenzubertritt gestattet    what are the urgent reasons for crossing a border      zudem bleibt die ruckreise von eu-burgern und drittstaatsangehorigen in ihre herkunftsstaaten oder in den staat, in dem sie zum aufenthalt  langerfristige aufenthaltstitel  berechtigt sind, mittels transit durch deutschland zulassig.    and here the google translate    in addition, eu citizens and third-country nationals can return to their home countries or to the country in which they are entitled to stay  long-term residence permits  by transit through germany.  	
can the coronavirus live on my clothes  answer yes, but a different question is what you should do about it. a virus tends to live longer on some nonporous surfaces, like steel or plastic, as compared to fabrics like cotton or leather. but after numerous people who attended a buddhist temple in hong kong fell ill, health workers did find coronavirus on the cloth covers of prayer books, among other items. it is probably not worth looking up stats and studies about every kind of surface in your life. the takeaway is the same: disinfect surfaces that are touched a lot and  wash your hands  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/world/how-to-wash-your-hands- coronavirus.html  after touching anything, and especially before touching your face or eating.  two broadway composers even wrote you  a song to sing while you wash  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/well/we-wrote-you-a-hand-washing- song-listen-up.html  .	
with covid19 continues to spread, this might affect the universities in the next semesters as the number of students might drop and many universities are offering cheap online degrees compared with the expensive traditional degrees. who can lose a job due to covid19 in academia  instructors with annual contracts, postdocs, adjunct-faculty, pre-tenure faculty, tenure faculty, or even all and many could universities shut down.    universities issue hiring freezes in response to covid-19  some offers were withdrawn and one case of layoffs- see comments   answer of all the examples you name, i think only those on annual contracts have much of any risk and i think that is small. the world is not actually ending. universities still have their mission s : teaching, research, service. that will not change unless the disruptions are much worse than are now foreseen or even likely.   course delivery is being affected, but has not ended. research goes on, though interrupted/slowed in some fields for safety. funding for research is still in place and will probably continue. it will be a boon for some  biomedical  research.   some marginal colleges will be in trouble. think walden university from the doonesbury comic, but they were in trouble before this began. tenure track professors are unlikely to be affected because they represent the future of the university, not some disposable resource. postdocs have contracts and funding in place for the most part, often by grants.   there is even a chance that the current disruption will increase the need for faculty in the short term.   but for long term effects we need to see how the hundreds to thousands of variables now in play work out over time. and it will take time since universities have quite a bit of built-in inertia. whether  cheap online degrees  have any actual value is something yet to be determined. and they may not be as cheap as you think. some online programs are extremely expensive to create. and the issue of the actual qualifications of those who take them is important and, perhaps, doubtful.   but even if a university were to try to deliver such a  cheap  degree there is the question of still needing to do research and that requires highly qualified personnel. there is not a  cheap online research path  that has and likelihood of success.   diploma mills have a poor history, being more associated with exploitation than with excellence.   relax. stay healthy. do a good job. climate change is a bigger risk than what we are going through in the current months.     some people normally employed by colleges are at risk, of course. the people who clean the dormitories and prepare meals for resident students, for example. lots of service jobs are at risk. likewise, there are lots of small businesses in college towns that are at risk of failure, leaving their employees  including students  without resources.  	
how do i make working at home easier     answer it is a tough one. the writer jen a. miller  offers these tips  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/smarter-living/how-to-work-from-home- if-youve-never-done-it-before.html : keep the same schedule, schedule breaks and proactively stay in touch with others to avoid suffering from isolation. that could mean emailing colleagues more often or holding video conferences to keep in touch. if all else fails,  get a dog.  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/smarter-living/how-to-work-from-home- if-youve-never-done-it-before.html  at the end of the day, put away your laptop and other work materials so that you can unwind.	
thanks to coronavirus, a local restaurant supply company is offering home delivery, and i ordered a ten pound bag of boneless skinless chicken breasts. there were eight of them in there...eight  for an average weight of 20 oz each   i have kids who like their food white. my usual method for bscbs of a reasonable size is a quick brine and bake, pound them a bit and steam in a covered skillet, or just boil  em  i know, it is sad . will these monsters turn out okay if i treat them this way    secondarily, if i were going to cook something with actual flavors, what would you recommend   answer it really depends on what types of meals you plan to make with them.  if you would typically serve people a whole breast, then i would cut each one down into more reasonable sizes  slice vaguely across the grain ... i usually start at the more bulbous end and slice diagonally through it so i end up with a chunk that is mostly from the thin end   for the size you are starting with, you might want to cut each one into 4 to 6 pieces. if you are planning on pounding them, i might even go with 8 to 10 pieces.  once they are a more reasonable size, you can then brine and bake them or pound them out, them like you normally would.  as you mention boiling them ... i would recommended poaching them instead. if you cut them up first, go with my original recommendation of an hour. if they went in whole, i might give it two hours. the technique that i mention is more like a slow cooker -- it is more forgiving and does not tend to overcook the outside before the middle is done  although, it can get fall-apart tender, and start breaking up as you try to fish them out with tongs. 	
in light of the current pandemic, how can travelers ensure that they are not infected while taking the plane  would it be sufficient to wear a n95 mask with protective goggles or does one require a full-blown hazmat protection suit to ensure absolute safety   i am aware that the best course of action is to avoid travel altogether, but let is presume that this is not an option.  answer coronavirus disease  covid-19  advice for the public: when and how to use masks   if you are healthy, you only need to wear a mask if you are taking care of a person with suspected 2019-ncov infection. wear a mask if you are coughing or sneezing. masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. if you wear a mask, then you must know how to use it and dispose of it properly.   from : http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019  protection measures for everyone stay aware of the latest information on the covid-19 outbreak, available on the who website and through your national and local public health authority. many countries around the world have seen cases of covid-19 and several have seen outbreaks. authorities in china and some other countries have succeeded in slowing or stopping their outbreaks. however, the situation is unpredictable so check regularly for the latest news.  you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:   regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands. maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing.why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease. avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick. make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately.why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19. stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority.why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections. keep up to date on the latest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 is spreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older person or have diabetes, heart or lung disease. why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas.  	
how can i prepare for covid-19 at work  answer plan for potential changes at your workplace. talk to your employer about their emergency operations plan, including sick-leave policies and telework options. learn how businesses and employers can plan for and respond to covid-19.	
are pregnant women at higher risk  answer we do not know.  because covid-19 is a new virus, we do not know whether pregnant women are more susceptible than the general population. based on data from previous coronaviruses, like sars and mers, some experts believe that pregnant women may be at higher risk for severe illness and death, but that data is limited and far from conclusive.  for now, neither the cdc nor the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists recommend any specific guidance for pregnant women beyond what they recommend to the general public.	
this decision means what      sufficient justification for the purpose and circumstances of the  intended stay was not provided. the specific purpose for which the  visa was applied for is no longer valid or will cease to be valid  before you arrive in the member state of destination. no other   secondary  purpose was stated at the time of the application, of if  it was, insufficient documentation was provided to demonstrate the  purpose of the stay. therefore, your application for a visa is  refused.   answer to understand what it means, let is unpack the text of the decision.    sufficient justification for the purpose and circumstances of the intended stay was not provided.   that is one of the standard reasons for refusals provided in the schengen visa code and other official documents. in general, it means that the consulate is not convinced you have a valid purpose for travel. there are many reasons why that might be and the rest is just an explanation of how they reached that conclusion.    the specific purpose for which the visa was applied for is no longer valid or will cease to be valid before you arrive in the member state of destination.   this one is more specific and should help understand the first one. what this means is that the purpose for the trip you described in your original application might have been valid at some point in the past but it is not current anymore. imagine you want to attend a conference but your application is delayed and the date of the conference has passed by the time the application is being assessed. going to a conference is a perfectly valid purpose for a trip but if that specific conference has passed, you cannot possibly attend it and it is not a valid purpose for a visit anymore.   it is difficult to say more without knowing more about your application but there are currently many restrictions on entry, travel and access to public areas across europe due to the covid-19 pandemic. so there are many legitimate trips to the schengen area that are just not possible anymore. for example, if you applied for a visa to vacation in italy, providing hotel bookings, etc. your trip does not have a purpose anymore as it will not be possible for you to stay at these hotels or visit any sights.    no other  secondary  purpose was stated at the time of the application,  or  if it was, insufficient documentation was provided to demonstrate the purpose of the stay.    a single journey can very well have several purposes. even if one of them ceases to be valid, it does not mean that the trip is necessarily useless. but, in the judgment of the consular officer, you did not describe any other sufficient purpose for this journey. it could be a reference to some detail of your application or simply some boilerplate they add to all such decisions.   note: i changed  of  into  or . it makes more sense in this sentence  it could be a simple typo or a confusion with the dutch word  of , which does mean  or .   so what does it mean for you  the decision is negative, you will not get a visa and cannot travel at this time. an appeal does not seem to make sense to me so you will need to start a new application from scratch if you want to travel to the schengen area in the future.  on the other hand, that is not the worst reason to be refused a visa. nothing suggests the consular officer suspected that you might be lying  they can use a different phrasing -  the justification  ...  was not reliable  in that case  and they have not expressed any doubt regarding your personal situation and willingness to abide by the rules. so a new application in a few months from now, when covid-19 restrictions have been lifted, seems like it would have good chances to be successful. 	
air france states that for covid-19 related cancellations:     ... or complete the online form below to obtain a travel voucher. this voucher is valid for 1 year on all air france, klm, delta air lines and virgin atlantic flights. this voucher will be refundable after one year if it is not used.    source  that seems like a ploy to circumvent eu261 regulations which i believe require a full refund in cases of cancellations. air france is offering sort of a refund but with one year delay built in.   background: we have an us lt - india ticket booked on expedia with an air france ticket. we obviously can not fly this and some legs have already been cancelled anyway. we like a full refund, not airline credit.  question: what is the best strategy to approach this  we should not really call expedia until 72-hours before departure, air france says  call your travel agent  and i am worried that expedia will simply say  airline is offering credit: take it or leave it. eu261 is not our problem . does anyone have some experience with air france cancellations recently   answer i would say that at least air france is being fairly up front in light of the  probable  fact that their cash flow does not suffice for the refunds that they are obliged to provide. if they had not come up with this voucher policy and instead decided to acknowledge their obligations up front, they would probably nonetheless drag their feet a year or more before actually giving you the money.  that said, the regulation does in fact specify reimbursement within seven days. so you could pursue them if you want to. short of hiring a lawyer, the regulation provides that you can seek enforcement through the national enforcement body designated under article 16 1 . a list of such bodies is found on the website of the european commission. 	
if you were infected with the virus, you had treatment and recovered. can the virus return  answer doctors say it is unlikely that the coronavirus would make you sick twice, especially if your body does a good job fighting it the first time.	
how can people who recently moved ensure they get their checks      answer if you received a refund in 2018 or 2019 via direct deposit to your bank account, and you did not change your bank account when you moved, you should be able to receive your rebate via direct deposit.    tax experts said that they think it would be helpful for the irs to provide guidance for taxpayers who have moved or have new bank accounts since they filed their most recent tax return.    under the bill, the irs has to send a notice to a taxpayer is last known address within 15 days of distributing a payment. the notice should provide information about the payment amount, the method used to make the payment and an irs phone number to report failures to receive the payment.	
does the bill include anything about student loans  answer federal student loan borrowers would get a reprieve from payments until october and any interest that would have accrued during that period would be waived. the agreement also allows students to keep any unspent money from pell grants or student loans and prevents students who have to leave school due to the pandemic from losing eligibility for future pell grants. i should also note the bill explicitly allows colleges and universities to pay students for work-study programs even if they are unable to work.	
can i go to the park  answer yes  getting exercise outside is a great alternative to going to the gym, where touching high-contact equipment can pose a risk  if your gym is even still open . a  study last year found infectious germs  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc6339305/  on about a third of the surfaces at 16 different fitness facilities. exercise boosts our immune systems, and even a single workout can improve our ability to fight off germs,  according to the latest research  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/well/move/exercise-immunity- infection-coronavirus.html . even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.	
is contraception/ family planning safe to use during the covid-19 pandemic  answer yes. all modern methods of contraception are safe to use, including during the covid-19 pandemic. if you have had a baby in the last six months or have a health condition, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or breast cancer - or if you smoke - seek advice from a health care professional to ensure you are using a method of contraception which is suitable and safe for you.	
how can i help  answer  charity navigator  http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm bay content.view cpid 7779 , which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. you can give blood through the  american red cross  http://www.redcrossblood.org/donate- blood/dlp/coronavirus--covid-19--and-blood-donation.html , and  world central kitchen  http://wck.org/  has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. more than 30,000 coronavirus-related  gofundme fund- raisers  http://www.gofundme.com/c/act/covid19  have started in the past few weeks.  the sheer number of fund-raisers  means more of them are likely to fail   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/style/gofundme-coronavirus.html to meet their goal, though. 	
is covid-19 airborne  answer the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through droplets generated when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or speaks. these droplets are too heavy to hang in the air. they quickly fall on floors or surfaces. you can be infected by breathing in the virus if you are within 1 metre of a person who has covid-19, or by touching a contaminated surface and then touching your eyes, nose or mouth before washing your hands.	
my wife  a kazakh national  is visiting in the uk on a standard visitor visa, staying with my family. she arrived on feb 1st. her original intention was to stay for approximately 3 months, until april 30th, and stated as such on her application form. she had been to the uk twice already, and had always departed in line with her intentions as originally stated during her previous applications. her current visa expires in july.   due to the covid-19 outbreak, kazahkstan will institute a one-month travel ban from tonight, preventing flights into the country. i am a little concerned about what should happen if the ban is extended beyond that.   i understand that the home office generally frowns upon visitors who stay longer than their stated intentions, even if they do not overstay their visa lengths. but if the kazakh travel ban prevents her from travelling back to her country until a date beyond april 30th, might this cause a problem in her future visa applications  or is it a reasonable excuse, and provided she explains the extended duration of her previous stay during the future application, might it be okay    edit: on that note, she applied for this uk visa from china  where we lived at the time . obviously, returning to china at this point, while theoretically possible  though we would have to apply for new chinese visas  they expired in february, a fact that she readily disclosed in her application , is hardly desirable. this is a circumstance that we could hardly have predicted beforehand. her chinese visa was temporary and she acknowledged this fact during her application. might the uk officials think  well, you could not fly to kazakhstan, sure, but why not go back to china  after all, you applied from there    i must stress that she never stated during her application that she intended to go back to china  indeed our plan was always for her to fly to kazakhstan around april 30th, the original envisaged date of departure. am i overthinking this, and would the specific country that she would go to after departing the uk be of no concern to them whatsoever    answer normally, the uk authorities take a dim view of significant changes because they consider that someone who applies for a short visit but then stays very much longer is probably working illegally.  however, these are extraordinary times, and if your wife finds herself stuck because of travel restrictions she should have no problem if she explains that in future visa applications.  note, however, that if she finds that she needs to stay beyond her visa she must contact the authorities to make arrangements for a longer stay.  fwiw, the countries that have imposed travel bans  there is a list on the ny times  have not applied them to their own citizens. your wife is likely to be allowed to travel, but might find it impossible to do so because flights are not available.  	
what are the symptoms  answer fever, dry cough and difficulty breathing are hallmarks of coronavirus.   symptoms may appear anywhere from 2 days to 2 weeks after exposure, the cdc says. but some people get no symptoms at all and can infect others without knowing it.  the illness varies in its severity, and many patients can recover at home in isolation.	
in 2019 i booked a flight ticket with sas to svalbard. unfortunately covid19 happened.  my ticket is from a flight outside the nordic countries, with a layover in oslo.  i will be prevented from entering norway, since i am not a resident. moreover, even if i was already in norway right now, i would be prevented from boarding the flight from oslo to longyearbyen, since svalbard also separately restricted travel.  to add to the complexity, when i tried to book this ticket, sas does not offer a flight with a single layover. all of the flights i found have a further layover in stavanger, stockholm, copenhagen... even if sas offers direct flights to oslo  the solution i found was to book with a travel agent which sold me a ticket with a single layover.  so, sas has a page for covid19 information, with links to a search tool  a bit buggy and annoying to use  to check cancelled and confirmed flights, i have not been able to confirm it for sure, but the closer we are to the departure date  it is less than 10 days from now , it seems that the less likely it will be for it to be cancelled.  i have the option of rebooking free of charge, unfortunately the rebooking can be made only once. and due to the current uncertainty, it is really difficult to pick another sensible date on which to plan my trip  no idea when norway and svalbard will reopen to visitors .  in theory, i have the option to exchange my flight ticket for a voucher, that way i would have the option to defer choosing the new date, which would suit me much better. unfortunately the voucher is valid for bookings made directly with sas  not for bookings made by travel agents .  i already contacted my travel agent 6 days ago. they ask not to call, and contact them via their ticketing system only for trips in the next 4 weeks. unfortunately, both messages i sent them have been replied with an automated reply which suggests to call them on the phone  phone which only has a recorded message, saying that they are unable to take calls due to the huge volume of requests .  so, it seems that i am stuck. i was thinking that given that in normal circumstances i have right to travel to norway  being an eea citizen , if i am denied boarding i should be able to at least hope for compensation according to eu regulation 261. though it seems there is an exception for safety, security or health reasons, which usually is for different kinds of concerns, but it might be applied to a blanket ban on non-residents due to covid19. regardless if that exception happens, i would have to actually attempt boarding  be at the airport on time  to actually claim compensation. i could do that, but that seems less than ideal:   i am social distancing, and i would rather avoid a needless trip to the airport as described above, i do not know if i should realistically expect compensation  maybe you can help me here  i would have to hope that the airline would really not let me board  given that i would then be stuck in norway without a flight to come back immediately , though i guess i can go past the gate and then turn back before entering the plane.   i guess that if the worst thing that happens to me during this pandemic is that i will lose out on the money for this flight ticket, that is still pretty good, all things considered. before giving up on it though, maybe you have some suggestion on how to able to be refunded   answer if someone has an answer to the general question, that is still welcome, but to provide an update on my specific situation:  it seems that things will resolve for the best: the airline ended up cancelling the flight, and the travel agent wrote me that they will go ahead with the refund process.  i have actually only received automated emails from the agent, and i have been unable to speak with anyone. otoh i have actually been able to speak with someone from the airline, so this experience is persuading me to try even harder in the future to avoid booking via a travel agent. 	
what are my rights if i am worried about going to work  answer employers have to provide    http://www.osha.gov/sltc/covid-19/standards.html  a safe workplace  http://www.osha.gov/sltc/covid-19/standards.html  with policies that protect everyone equally. and if one of your co-workers tests positive for covid-19, the c.d.c. has said that    http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business- response.html  employers should tell their employees  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance- business-response.html   -- without giving you the sick employee is name -- that they may have been exposed to the virus.  many states have stay-at-home orders  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-stay-at-home- order.html , but even if your employment is exempt and requires you to come in, you could still ask about working from home. otherwise, you would probably have to use paid time off or take a leave of absence -- if that is an option.	
are there any extra risks for pregnant women or their developing babies  answer the peak body for obstetrics and gynaecology and women is health, ranzcog, has advice and information about covid-19. at this time, pregnant women do not appear to be more severely unwell if they develop covid-19 infection than the general populationthere is no evidence to suggest an increased risk of miscarriagethere is no evidence to suggest the virus can pass to your developing babythere is no evidence the virus is carried in breastmilk	
given the current covid-19 situation where the home country  india  has stopped all international flights, how can one  65  year old  extend their b2 visa or stay after i-94 extension  any help is appreciated.  i called up uscis regarding the same and they told me it usually takes around 6 months to process these applications. my main concern is what if the application is rejected and the applicant has already overstayed their original visa expiry date, will it be considered illegal  what happens if it is considered illegal   edit : airlift for indian nationals in the usa whoever is interested kindly fill this out http://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1faipqlscumxmz7cdnho-4zrmjovdmevu5onzn1qsjdij biqtsc9itw/viewform   answer she can file form i-539 for extension of status at any point up until her status expires. the application just has to be officially received by uscis before her status expires.  if she filed her extension of status application before her status expired, she can stay in the us while it is pending even if her status expires in the meantime. the government will generally not deport her for being out of status while her extension of status is pending. in addition, she does not accrue  unlawful presence  while her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is pending, even if her i-94 is expired. if her extension of status is approved, she will be retroactively granted status from when her last status expired.  see this brochure:    what if i file for an extension of stay on time but uscis does not make  a decision before my i-94 expires     your lawful nonimmigrant status ends, and you are out of status, when  your form i-94 expires, even if you have timely applied to extend your  nonimmigrant status. generally, as a matter of discretion, uscis will  defer any removal proceedings until after the petition is adjudicated  and uscis decides your request for extension of nonimmigrant status.   ...     even though you are not actually in a lawful nonimmigrant status, you  do not accrue  unlawful presence  for purposes of inadmissibility  under section 212 a  9  b  of the immigration and nationality act,  while your extension of status application is pending if it was filed  prior to the expiration of your form i-94.     ...     if your application for an extension of stay is approved, the approval  will relate back to the date your form i-94 expired, and your status  while your application is pending will then be considered to have been  lawful.    if your application is denied, you may be required to cease employment  and depart the united states immediately.    in addition, any nonimmigrant visa in your passport granted in  connection with your classification becomes void. once your visa is  void, you must submit any new visa application at a u.s. consulate in  your home country  not a third country, except in rare instances as  determined by the u.s. department of state .   if her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is denied, and her i-94 has expired, and she is still in the us on the date of the denial, she will start to accrue  unlawful presence  from the date of the denial.   see afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  d  iv :    if a timely filed, non-frivolous request for eos or cos is denied for  cause, unlawful presence begins to accrue the day after the request is  denied.   and 9 fam 302.11-3 b  1  b  4  b  ii :    b. dhs has interpreted  period of stay authorized by the secretary of  homeland security,  as used in this context, to include:     4  for aliens who have applied for extension of stay or change of  nonimmigrant classification and who have remained in the united states  after expiration of the from i-94 while awaiting dhs is decision, the  entire period of the pendency of the application, provided that:      a  the alien does not work unlawfully while the application is  pending and did not work unlawfully prior to filing the application   and     b  the alien did not otherwise fail to maintain his or her status  prior to the filing of the application  unless the application is  approved at the discretion of uscis and the failure to maintain status  is solely a result of the expiration of the form i-94 , and further  provided either:     i   ...   or     ii  if the application was denied or the alien departed while the  application was still pending, that the application was timely filed  and nonfrivolous.    unlawful presence  does not cause a ban unless she leaves the us after accrues more than 180 days of  unlawful presence . so she should not have to worry about a ban as long as she leaves within a reasonable amount of time after she learns about the denial.  the other consequence of her being still in the us when her extension of status is denied if her i-94 is expired, is that ina 222 g  is triggered, which means the visa she used to enter the us is automatically voided, and she would have to apply for us visas from her country of nationality from then on.  also, uscis has a policy where they will issue notices to appear  ntas  to people after an i-539 denial if they are unlawfully present after the denial, although i am not sure whether they are still doing that during the covid-19 outbreak. according to this teleconference, they will wait for a 33-day period  the period to file a motion to reopen or reconsider  after the denial before they issue the nta, so this basically means your mother should try to leave within 33 days of a denial.  on the other hand, if she leaves the us while her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is still pending  i.e. before it is approved or denied , she does not accrue any  unlawful presence , and her visa is not voided.  see afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  c :    departure from the united states while a request for eos or cos is  pending, does not subject an alien to the 3-year, 10-year, or  permanent bar, if he or she departs after the expiration of form i-94,  arrival/departure record unless the application was frivolous,  untimely, or the individual had worked without authorization.   and the 9 fam 302.11-3 b  1  b  4  b  ii  passage quoted previously.  and it does not void her visa under ina 222 g , according to 9 fam 302.1-9 b  1  c  4  b :     ...  in addition, if an alien departs after the date on the form i-94  passes, but before his or her application for extension or change of  status has been decided by uscis, they must be subject to a blanket  exemption from ina 222 g , if the application was filed in a  timely  manner  and is  nonfrivolous  in nature. you may consider an  application nonfrivolous if it is not, on its face, a groundless  excuse for the applicant to remain in the united states to engage in  activities incompatible with his or her status. posts may be  satisfied that an alien filed in a timely manner using evidence such  as a record in uscis person centric query service  pcqs  or the dated  receipt or canceled check from uscis for the payment of the  application fee to extend or change status together with evidence of  the expiration of the alien is legal status.   the meaning of being timely-filed and non-frivolous are described in afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  c :     ...     the requirement that the application was timely may be established  through the submission of evidence of the date the previously  authorized stay expired, together with a copy of a dated filing  receipt, a canceled check payable to uscis for the eos or cos  application, or other credible evidence of a timely filing.     ...     to be considered non-frivolous, the application must have an arguable  basis in law and fact, and must not have been filed for an improper  purpose  such as to prolong one is stay to pursue activities  inconsistent with one is status .    in determining whether an eos or cos application was non-frivolous,  dos has instructed consular posts that it is not necessary to make a  determination that uscis would have ultimately ruled in favor of the  alien.   and 9 fam 302.11-3 b  5  b-c :    b.  ...  therefore, for all cases involving potential inadmissibility  under ina 212 a  9  b  whether under the three-year bar of  212 a  9  b  i  i  or the 10-year bar of ina 212 a  9  b  i  ii , dhs  has decided to consider all time during which an application for  extension of stay  eos  or change of nonimmigrant status  cos  is  pending to be a period of stay authorized by the secretary of homeland  security provided:     1  the application was filed in a timely manner  i.e., before the  expiration date of the form i-94, arrival and departure record      2  the application was  nonfrivolous   and     3  the alien has not engaged in unauthorized employment  whether  before or after april 1, 1997 .     ...     c. to be considered  nonfrivolous  the consular officer must find that  the application had an arguable basis in law and fact and must not  have been filed for an improper purpose  e.g., as a groundless excuse  for the applicant to remain in activities incompatible with his or her  status . it is not necessary to determine that the dhs would have  approved the application for it to be considered nonfrivolous.   so the question is whether her application of extension of status is  frivolous  or not. note that it is possible for an application to be  non-frivolous  even if uscis is likely to deny it  it just needs to have an  arguable basis in law and fact  and not be  filed for an improper purpose .  in my  non-professional  opinion, an application of extension of status for the reason of not being able to return to her home country to due covid-19 flight bans is not frivolous. in the uscis page on special situations, it mentions that for applications of extension of status and change of status, uscis will take into consideration how special situations prevented your departure. 	
what is the test like  answer what is the test like  the cdc recommends at least two swabs -- nose and throat. samples are sent to labs that look for bits of viral genetic material, which takes roughly 4 to 6 hours. altogether, it can take several days to ship a sample and get results back. it is been taking two to three days, and  we are working really hard to see if we can shorten that time  by developing an in-house test, dr. aimee moulin of the university of california, davis said thursday in a conference call held by the american college of emergency physicians. some areas have opened drive-thru sites for testing, which could reduce exposure to health workers and other patients or the public.	
as it commonly known, mutability is a fundamental characteristic of viruses which presents the ability of virus genome to adapt to physical circumstances, prevent and circumvent vaccine effect and to cover more ranges of carriers, animals and people categories.  covid-19 belongs to rna-viruses family, and rna viruses is known to be very mutable, but how much this is true for covid-19  how much in comparison with other viruses  i did not found any reliable researches in this field except this expatiative article from epivax.    according to their research, this virus has little-to-zero t-epitopes cross-conservation which makes it very difficult to build a vaccine. am i right   what interests me more, is the mutability of the virus. now mostly aged people are subject to fatality with this virus    but might this situation change later   answer there has been at least one phylogenetic study of 48 near complete samples of the sars-cov-2 virus.    and a more up to date link at genomic epidemiology of novel coronavirus  http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08802 	
is the presence of a fever always the first symptom of a coronavirus infection  is there any value in taking your temperature every day  answer symptoms of covid-19 resemble the flu and include fever, cough and shortness of breath, according to the cdc. some people also develop aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea.  while fever is one of the most common symptoms, it is not productive to take your temperature every day, poland said.   that is like taking your blood pressure four times a day for no particular good reason. i would probably not do that unless there is a reason to do it. for example, if you felt feverish, or if you traveled to a high-risk area, or if you had contact with somebody  infected ,  he said.	
in response to the spread of covid-19 disease, all californians were ordered on 19 march 2020 to stay at home, except for such necessary errands as trips to grocery stores, pharmacies, etc. on 21 march the san francisco chronicle reported that about  11 ,500  tests for the virus have been completed so far with  1206  positive results among them.   can anything useful be said about the prevalence of the virus in california based on these results  if  a  the 11500 tests were from randomly chosen californians and  b  the tests were of  gold standard  quality, then prevalence would be close to  1206/11500   0.1049  approx 10.5  .   however, according to the chronicle article, guidelines have centered on testing people showing symptoms of covid-19 disease, care workers who have had contact with covid-19 patients, and people who have symptoms of pneumonia, but test negative for pneumonia. moreover, tests are  coming from a growing list of private companies, private labs, and public and private universities,  so there is no way to know proportions of false positives and false negatives for any one test, let alone the overall rates for whatever mix of tests accounts for the 11,500 reported results.  in my answer below, i will extend my answer to this question to give prevalence values resulting from various assumptions about the sensitivity and specificity of the tests involved. i use the notation of that page. this analysis may help to answer the question for whatever population produced the specimens tested.  additional answers are welcome, perhaps showing alternative methods or based on additional information that may become available as the pandemic continues  answer notation. let   pi   p  text disease    be the prevalence of the disease in the population and   tau   p  text pos test    be the proportion testing positive. for the test, let   eta   p  text pos   text disease    be the sensitivity and   theta   p  text neg   text no disease    be its specificity. also, given test results, let    gamma   p  text disease    text pos    and    delta   p  text no disease    text neg    be, respectively, the predictive powers of a positive or negative test.  if a test is of gold standard quality with   eta    theta   1,  then   pi    tau.  tests that accurately sequence the genome of the virus may be gold standard tests. often the first tests for a virus may have considerably lower values of   eta  and   theta.  it is difficult to find accounts of values of   eta  and   theta  for any of the tests in current use for covid-19.  according to one unauthorized report, a test used in china had   theta  approx 0.7.    traditional estimate. first, we look at results for tests with   eta    theta   0.95.  then for data with  n  11 ,500  a   1206,  we have   hat  tau   t   0.1049.  the associated 95  wald confidence interval for   tau  is   0.0993, 0.1105   from which one can derive the confidence interval   0.0547, 0.0672   for   pi.  also,   pi   0.061  implies that the predictive power of a positive test is   gamma   0.5523.  only about half of the subjects testing positive are actually infected. some computations in r follow:  eta   theta   .95 n   11500  a   1206  p0m   -1:1  t   a/n wald.tau   t  p0m 1.96 sqrt t  1-t /n   wald.tau  1  0.09926973 0.10486957 0.11046940 ci.pi    wald.t   theta - 1 / eta   theta - 1   ci.pi  1  0.05474415 0.06096618 0.06718822 pi    t   theta -1 / eta   theta -1   pi  1  0.06096618 gamma   pi eta/ pi eta    1-pi   1-theta    gamma  1  0.5522849   when the traditional estimate is problematic. for a poorer test with   eta    theta   0.90,  this method gives a ci for   pi   as   -0.0009, 0.0131 ,  which has a  nonsensical  negative left endpoint.  we would expect about 1150 false positive tests even with no infected subjects. this is getting close to the the observed number 1206 of positive tests.  in such circumstances, one wonders whether to trust the point estimates   hat  pi   0.0061  and   hat  gamma   0.0522.   eta   theta   .9 n   11500  a   1206  p0m   -1:1  t   a/n wald.tau   t  p0m 1.96 sqrt t  1-t /n   wald.tau  1  0.09926973 0.10486957 0.11046940  ci.pi    wald.t   theta - 1 / eta   theta - 1   ci.pi  1  -0.0009128343 0.0060869565 0.0130867473 pi    t   theta -1 / eta   theta -1   pi  1  0.006086957 gamma   pi eta/ pi eta    1-pi   1-theta    gamma  1  0.05223881   a gibbs sampler. one useful alternative approach is to assume a beta prior distribution on prevalence   pi  sim  mathsf beta  alpha,  beta  .  even if noninformative with   alpha    beta   0.5,  such a prior distribution excludes value of   pi  outside   0,1 .  then we use a gibbs sampler to find the posterior distribution of   pi,  given our data  n   11 ,500, a   1206.  its steps, within each iteration, are as follows:   we begin with an arbitrary value of   pi 1  in  0,1   and use it to estimate  latent  counts of subjects with the disease based on predictive values   gamma  and   delta.  we sample counts  x  sim  mathsf binom  a,  gamma   and  y  sim  mathsf binom  n-a, 1 -  delta .  then with the estimated  s   x y  infected subjects, we update the beta prior at this step as   pi s  sim  mathsf beta   alpha   s,  beta   n - s .  finally, we sample   pi 2  from this updated distribution. even with arbitrary   pi 1,  this new value   pi 2  is likely to be closer to the truth.   simulated posterior distribution. iterating through many such steps we get successive values   pi 1,  pi 2,  pi 3,  dots ,  in a convergent markov chain, for which the limiting distribution is the desired posterior distribution of the prevalence. to make sure that the chain has reached steady state, we use only the last half of the many values   pi i  generated in this way.   cutting 2.5  of the probability from each tail of the simulated posterior distribution, we can obtain a 95  bayesian probability estimate for prevalence   pi.   set.seed 1020  m   10 5   iterations pi   gamma   gamma   numeric m    vectors for results pi 1    .5   initial value alpha   .5  beta   .5   parameters of beta prior eta   .9  theta   .9   sensitivity  specificity n   11500  a   1206  b   n - a   data for  i in 2:m      num.x   pi i-1  eta  den.x   num.x    1-pi i-1    1 - theta   gamma i    num.x/den.x  x   rbinom 1, a, num.x/den.x    use est of gamma as probability  num.y   pi i-1   1 - eta   den.y   num.y    1-pi i-1   theta  y   rbinom 1, b, num.y/den.y    use 1 - est of delta as probability  pi i    rbeta 1, x   y   alpha, n - x - y   beta    aft.brn   seq floor m/2 ,m  quantile pi aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   3.329477e-05 1.225794e-02  quantile pi aft.brn , .95   95   0.01101075  mean pi aft.brn    1  0.0049096  quantile gamma aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   0.0002995732 0.1004690791  mean gamma aft.brn    1  0.04176755 quantile gamma aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   0.0002995732 0.1004690791    because the two-sided bayesian probability interval   .00003, .0123   has its lower endpoint so near to 0, we also look at the one-sided interval   0, .0110   for   pi.    because we estimate the predictive power   gamma  of a positive test at each step of the chain, we capture its values in order to get a 95   bayesian probability interval   0.0003, 0.1005   for the predictive power   gamma  of a positive test. if we were to sequester subjects that get a positive result with this test, then only a relatively small proportion of sequestered subjects would actually be infected.  diagnostic plots. not all gibbs samplers converge as anticipated. diagnostic plots show that this one does.    a plot of successive values of   pi  shows the nature of the convergence of the markov chain. the history plot of   pi  shows that the chain amixes well   that is, it moves freely among appropriate values. there are no points of near-absorption.  the trace of running averages of the   pi i  shows smooth convergence to prevalence 0.0049. vertical blue lines indicate the burn-in period. the acf plot shows that the   pi i  are not independent. among the  m   100 ,000  values, perhaps there are 1000 independent ones. in many gibbs samplers, markov dependence  wears away  more rapidly than here.  the plot at lower-right is a history plot of the   gamma i.       variations. if we run the same program with   eta    theta   .95,  results are nearly the same as for the traditional procedure. if we have useful prior information  or opinions  about the prevalence, we can incorporate that information into the prior distribution on   pi.   references:  1  suess, gardner,  amp  johnson  2002 ,  hierarchical bayesian model for prevalence inferences and determination of a country is status for an animal pathogen  preventive veterinary medicine, and its references.  2  suess  amp  trumbo  2010  probability simulation and gibbs sampling,  sect. 9.1 , springer. 	
i will be travelling for more than 13 hours through south east asia, most of the time in a crowded environment like airplane or transiting at the airport. what precautions should i take to reduce the chances of contracting any contagious disease, such as corona virus covid-19   answer in february, i flew into singapore through seoul, and back the same way to toronto. singapore had a jump in cases just as we arrived  seoul is jump was happening while we were in singapore. here is what we did:   hand washing pretty much every chance we got.  i say pretty much because if you walk a long way in an airport you will walk past multiple bathrooms  we did not go in to each and every one and have a wash.  but we did sometimes go and wash even though we did not need to use the bathroom. for example, every time we returned to our hotel room after being out. hand sanitizer after handling money, before eating, or when sitting waiting use sanitizing wipes to clean the airplane screen and trays immediately on getting to the seats. i should have done the seatbelt and arm rests too and will on my next trip. try to pay by credit card, using contactless, and holding my own card instead of handing it to someone to tap for me, whenever possible. avoid cash -- it really is filthy do not touch handrails and other  public  surfaces unless you actually need them for support. keep your hands to yourself as much as you can. in singapore there was a lot of wiping going on, but in other places i have not seen that really try to touch your face less. it is hard, you just need to watch videos of people telling you not to touch their face while people behind them touch their faces, and then moments later the speaker does too. it is hard. that is why all the handwashing and hand sanitizing is important if you cough or sneeze, use a tissue or your elbow to confine it, so as to cause less distress to those around you and lower overall stress - to do this, you will need a loose tissue in your pocket that you can grab quickly. if there is no nearby garbage, you will need another pocket you can designate for dirty tissues. when you see a garbage, empty the dirty pocket and sanitize your hands to lessen the chance you are passing anything along. monitor your temperature. in singapore this was done for me many times a day. on return home i checked my temperature twice a day or so for 14 days to be sure i was not running a fever. tell the truth when you come home. do not be that person who lies about where they have been.    in addition, at least one friend has taken a laptop on vacation, not because she might need it during the vacation, but in case she was quarantined in her destination or on return before she could get to her home.   there are enough cases in ontario now that when i go to toronto and ride the public transit, i am going to take all these same precautions. this is really not just a travel issue any more. 	
what is the value of testing for the coronavirus if there is currently no treatment  answer there is value to getting tested because there are many reasons why someonewould seek medical care for their symptoms, and ruling out the coronavirus ishelpful in seeking other causes, said jason christie, chief of pulmonarymedicine at penn medicine. the biggest problem is we do not have a quick and reliable test right now.without that, we have to be smart and ration the testing to those people thatneed them most. so do not go out and get tested right now unless you are sick, christie said.testing also helps health officials figure out how prevalent and contagious avirus is.	
according to the wall street journal, in order to attempt to slow the economic contraction caused by the covid-19 virus, the federal reserve has promised to inject  1.5 trillion into the economy, by     making  vast sums of short-term loans available on wall street and   purchasing  treasury securities in a coronavirus-related response aimed  at preventing ominous trading conditions from creating a sharper  economic contraction.   how can such a large sum of money be allocated to this without any debate or official order by the government  where does this money come from  and how does providing loans to wall street help prevent the economy from contracting further   answer there is no loan here. what is happening is a buyback to inject money into the system  emphasis mine     today the fed announced a  1.5 trillion liquidity provision to the interbank lending market -- primarily in the form of  repurchase agreements.  the interbank lending market comprises the federal-funds market  in which the fed actively participates on a daily basis  and the repurchase-agreement  or  repo   market  in which the fed intervenes primarily when there is a lack of liquidity . in the repo market, one financial institution temporarily trades securities to another institution, with the understanding that it will repurchase those securities in the near future  usually the next day . banks with large balance sheets often need access to quick cash to conduct regular operations, and the most practical way to get that cash is through repos. otherwise, managing their balance sheets would be needlessly onerous.    and     the federal reserve  is engaging in short-term transactions with banks to ensure financial stability. if the fed bought your house today and sold it back to you tomorrow, it would not be doing you a huge favor. the fed is intervention in the repo market, while a boon to the u.s. financial system, is far from a handout.   	
are we aware of a  bug   virus, bacterium, prion, ...  that has completely exterminated an entire species  either through direct observation or maybe some form of archeological evidence  if not, are there realistic scenarios where this could happen   i am primarily interested in cases where the disease was the driving factor of extinction of an otherwise well established and healthy population, but examples of species that were in bad shape to begin with are welcome as well.  my understanding is that this is unlikely, since very deadly infections tend to burn out or evolve towards being less deadly. killing your host is not conducive to your survival. but maybe it would be possible to reduce the number of individuals so much that reproduction became problematic. i imagine a species confined to an island or something might be susceptible.  i am asking this because in an interview i saw, an epidemiologist said that his usual research interest are  bugs with species ending potential . the interview was on covid-19 so he did not elaborate on what he meant by that or give any examples.  for the special case of humans, i was able to find this article that claims such an event to be unlikely, but i suppose we are the best equipped species that has ever existed on this planet to deal with such a threat.  answer from the vantage point of other species, humans might be considered  bugs  in the sense that we are organisms that are causal in the ongoing extinction of numerous species. we are doing a pretty good job of it, so far:    the included extinctions span numerous families of plants 4  and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods. with widespread degradation of highly biodiverse habitats such as coral reefs and rainforests, as well as other areas, the vast majority of these extinctions are thought to be undocumented, as the species are undiscovered at the time of their extinction, or no one has yet discovered their extinction. the current rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than natural background rates.  	
we know the virus can live on hard surfaces. what about clothing  answer it probably can -- but you should not be overly worried. here is why. so far, there are not scientific findings on how long the virus can live on fabric. but fabrics are generally porous -- as is cardboard, which has been tested. and a recent study did find that the virus can live on cardboard for up to 24 hours.  the thing that you have to consider, though, is that those tests are done in ideal testing circumstances,  says rachel graham, a virologist at the university of north carolina.  that is like in some kind of hermetically sealed box where there is no fluctuation in humidity, there is no wind, there is nothing that can contribute toward desiccating the virus. and so desiccation -- or drying out the virus -- would actually reduce the amount of time it is actually viable on any kind of surface.  plus, porousness is a good thing when it comes to avoiding viral transmission. a surface that is permeable, like a fabric, tends to trap viruses more easily than hard surfaces.  it is less at risk of transmitting because the virus gets kind of stuck to the  porous  surface, and so it can not be easily transferred back off of it,  graham says.  porous surfaces also suck the fluid out of it. the viral membrane is a lipid membrane, and so if that becomes dried out, it is basically done, infectivity-wise.  if you are concerned that clothing or other fabric items might have picked up the virus, throw the clothing in the washer and dryer. for most situations, says graham, your detergent will do its job and get rid of any infective particles -- or at least sanitize them to the point where they are not a risk to you. if you are taking care of someone who is ill or immunocompromised or if you are working in a health care setting, you may want to take additional precautions. the centers for disease control and prevention has recommendations for households with suspected or confirmed cases of the coronavirus, which include wearing gloves when handling dirty laundry from an ill person and using the warmest appropriate water setting when washing clothes or linens to disinfect them. i like to use wipes to disinfect surfaces in my home -- especially surfaces that are frequently touched. but how much surface area can one wipe be used on before it loses its ability to kill the coronavirus  the first step is to check the label on the wipes you are using. for instance, the label on a container of clorox wipes instructs:  use enough wipes for treated surface to remain visibly wet for 4 minutes. to kill viruses, let stand 15 seconds.  that time and that visible wetness are important, says erica hartmann, an expert in environmental microbiology at northwestern university is mccormick school of engineering. regardless of the particular ingredients in the wipes you are using,  they are all chemicals that have to react,  she says.  and those chemical reactions are not instantaneous -- they take a certain amount of time. so what you are doing when you are keeping the surface wet is you are basically allowing time, allowing the chemical reactions to take place.  so if that clorox wipe is not making the surface visibly wet for 4 minutes, you are trying to cover too much ground with one wipe. there is no exact figure for how much surface area a wipe can handle. but a 2018 study found that one wipe is generally more effective over 1 to 2 square feet than 8 square feet. and you do not need a premade wipe to clean surfaces: you can also use a liquid product on a cloth or paper towel. the centers for disease control and prevention advises using products that contain bleach  sodium hypochlorite  or alcohol  at least 70   and following the manufacturer is directions. you can make your own cleaning solution by mixing 4 teaspoons of bleach per quart of water, according to the cdc. the u.s. environmental protection agency has posted a list of approved products to disinfect against the coronavirus. strangers keep petting my dog when we go for a walk. could my dog transmit the virus on its fur  saskia popescu, an infection prevention epidemiologist at the health care system honorhealth, says she is not especially concerned about dog fur transmitting the virus.  i think that i would probably be more worried if somebody was coughing all over the place and went to touch my dog is harness or something -- something inanimate,  she says.  i would put it in the lower-risk category.  that is because like fabric, fur is a porous surface -- so it is not easy for a person to pick up bits of virus from it.  the chances of you getting it from fur and hair is going to be less than getting it from a solid surface,  says graham, the virologist. still, she said, she would err on the side of caution and ask people not to pet your dog right now. graham says one way to make sure your dog does not get touched by overenthusiastic petters is to avoid letting your dog off leash in a place where it may encounter other people. rather than going to a dog park, she says,  it might be a better idea to take your dog out in the yard or somewhere you know that there is not going to be a lot of people.  and despite the occasional media report of a dog diagnosed with covid-19, there is no evidence that pets can contract or spread covid-19. the cdc says it has not received any reports of pets or animals becoming sick with the disease. the american veterinary medical association concurs:  infectious disease experts and multiple international and domestic human and animal health organizations agree there is no evidence at this point to indicate that pets become ill with covid-19 or that they spread it to other animals, including people.  one note: if you are already sick with covid-19, the association recommends limiting contact with animals  out of an abundance of caution  until more is known about the virus. if you are not sick with the coronavirus, the group says you can interact with your pet as you normally would -- while practicing good hygiene, including washing your hands before and after interacting with your pet.	
and let is start with the trends here. who is getting sick, and how sick are they getting  answer sure. well, we do have a preliminary snapshot of cases in the u.s. from the cdc. and the picture so far is similar to what was documented in china. coronavirus hits oldest people - older people the hardest. the cdc analysis found that about half of the people who have ended up in intensive care are 65 and older  the highest percentage of deaths in the u.s. has been among those 85 and older. now this is based on an analysis of about 500 patients admitted to the hospital in the u.s. - so not all of the cases. but here is something to be aware of - younger adults can be vulnerable too  about 20  of people hospitalized were in their 40s and 50s. and this may come as a surprise - about 20  were younger. so some millennials and gen xers have gotten seriously ill.	
should seniors and children be separated if they live in the same home  answer while children appear to be less affected by the virus, elderly people and those with other medical issues are more at risk of suffering a severe outcome from a covid-19 infection. for families that have both seniors and young children living under the same roof, bogoch said they should take care to separate them if anyone shows symptoms. however, he said that should be the case for anyone who is living with others and exhibits any symptoms, such as fever, coughing, and difficulty breathing.   you just have to be very mindful if anyone has any symptoms whatsoever they should be separated,  he said.	
what should i do if there is an outbreak in my community  answer during an outbreak, stay calm and put your preparedness plan to work. follow the steps below: protect yourself and others.  stay home if you are sick. keep away from people who are sick. limit close contact with others as much as possible  about 6 feet .  put your household plan into action.  stay informed about the local covid-19 situation. be aware of temporary school dismissals in your area, as this may affect your household is daily routine.   continue practicing everyday preventive actions. cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. if soap and water are not available, use a hand sanitizer that contains 60  alcohol. clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily using a regular household detergent and water. notify your workplace as soon as possible if your regular work schedule changes. ask to work from home or take leave if you or someone in your household gets sick with covid-19 symptoms, or if your child is school is dismissed temporarily. learn how businesses and employers can plan for and respond to covid-19. stay in touch with others by phone or email. if you have a chronic medical condition and live alone, ask family, friends, and health care providers to check on you during an outbreak. stay in touch with family and friends, especially those at increased risk of developing severe illness, such as older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions.  	
are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure covid-19  answer while some western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of covid-19, there is no evidence that current medicine can prevent or cure the disease. however, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both western and traditional medicines.	
i know this is a kind of question we have probably already asked but i keep reading and i never get the answer i look for, i never find the same situation.  i am french, living in spain and my boyfriend is american living in nyc. he has his own business with his brother and before we met they already wanted to expand the business  creams and body care oils  to europe.   he wanted to hire a person to be in charge of all the translation work, calls, emails and european marketing in general for europe. i do not want to go to the us, i am fine here in spain but we found it stupid to hire someone to do this job when i am actually a teacher and translator here in spain. so the plan would be to go there for a year to help them get into european business, teach them a bit of spanish and french so they can travel  they already are in touch with potential clients  and get to know the products etc. being at the stores they have. after all this, the idea is to come back before next summer as i plan to open my little language school and he plans to open another store here in spain.  can he hire me even if i am his girlfriend  nothing is official we are neither married nor pareja de hecho as we call it here. if he puts an offer online and present my resume etc for h1b visa, in the case to be approved  which i doubt with all this corona virus thing , am i able to tell the embassy he is my boyfriend   i mean i do not want to lie and i do not think it is an option actually, and as i really do not wanna live in the us neither... i have no plan to stay over there for green card they can be sure i will not. i have lots of stuff ready for my future school which is also a proof that i clearly have other things in mind than the us.  how should we do this   answer the h1b process takes time, luck, qualifications, fees, and skilled form-filling. i suggest avoiding it by never working in the us. you would go on living in spain and only visit the us for short periods.  in practice, you would use the visa waiver program, but b-1 temporary business visitor lists the permitted business activities for a visitor to the us.  short term training should cover getting to know the products. discussing marketing strategy would be consulting with business associates.  translations and marketing can be done from anywhere in the world. calls and e-mails are best done from the correspondents  timezone or close to it, so being in europe would be an advantage. to promptly return a 9 a.m. call from someone in france you would need get up very early in new york.  you would not be allowed to teach your boyfriend and his brother while visiting the us, but you could teach remotely and you could travel with them whenever they are in europe to translate, smooth their way, and teach them the languages. as time goes on you do less talking and translating, until they can do business in europe without you and you can get on with starting your school. 	
can coronavirus go through skin and into the body  answer  it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads,  the cdc says.   more often than not, people get coronavirus through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.   these droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs,  the cdc says.	
i have a question related to sars-cov-2 virus spreaded in the air.   this straits time article from march 18 describes a new study:     the tests show that when the virus is carried by the droplets released when someone coughs or sneezes, it remains viable, or able to still infect people, in aerosols for at least three hours.   examples of aerosol are fog, dust, particulate air pollutants  e.g. pollen , smoke, etc.  that being said, is essentially saying that the sars-cov-2 virus is all over in the air, right   i am saying that sars-cov-2 virus can be everywhere in the world. why  because, for example, dust is everywhere in the air and air is not static, i.e.  it flies  from one site to another and hence it can move to a place where no infected people have been at.  am i understanding this correctly   thank you in advance  answer you are not understanding it correctly  there is a significant difference between an aerosol, dust and droplets. furthermore the intermixing of air is not as you claim it is, it is in fact, quite static. if air just went everywhere immediately there would not be clouds, temperature differences, or indeed any weather effects at all.  a question you could ask yourself is: with my current understanding, covid-19 should be everywhere. there should not exist differences between cities and rural areas, or between countries. but there is.  listen to the advice of health services and the government. they know their shit. 	
will the internet and couriers be suspended  answer will the internet and couriers be suspended  no. all essential services, including internet and courier services, will continue to function.	
should i avoid big gatherings like parties or weddings  answer yes. avoid big gatherings. weddings can continue, but only with the couple, the celebrant, and witnesses totalling a maximum of five people. funerals are limited to a maximum of 10 people in addition to this, pubs, clubs, restaurants and churches have also been forced to close.	
this is an exploratory question.  if a covid-19 infected person  person is unaware that he is infected  milks the cow for couple of days, is there a possibility of him infecting the cow thereby infecting the milk   similarly, if a dog licks the face of covid-19 infected person, is it possible that the virus may spread through its saliva to another person in the vicinity.  answer   covid-19 is the result of a zoonotic outbreak from bats to an intermediate   and unidentified host   thence to humans. it is thought that bats do not suffer the disease themselves as they carry low levels of virus but the intermediate host modifies the virus, and amplifies it so that it vastly increases the amount of virus that can shed into the environment infecting humans. one possible scenario is that bat coronavirus combined with a fish coronavirus inside the intermediate host. this is based on the observation that the sars-cov-2 spike gene shares a 39-base insertion with a type of soldierfish that swims in the south china sea.  the sars-cov-2 infects humans via the ace2 surface receptor, but this receptor is not only found in humans. other animals have similar but not exactly the same ace2 receptors and several dogs and one cat have returned positive swabs for sars-cov-2. the cat developed covid-19 symptoms. the first dog died two days after being released back to its owner but that might have been from the stress of quarantine in a 17 year old pomeranian. ferrets also have an ace2 receptor which also binds strongly to the sars virus so presumably are also at risk. mice appear to be less at risk.    this is the first human-to-cat transmission of the novel coronavirus  sars-cov-2 . about a week after its owner got sick with covid-19, after returning from a trip to northern italy, the cat developed coronavirus symptoms: diarrhea, vomiting and respiratory issues, steven van gucht, virologist and federal spokesperson for the coronavirus epidemic in belgium, told live science.    the owner sent samples of vomit and feces to dr. daniel desmecht is lab at the faculty of veterinary medicine of liege. genetic tests showed high levels of sars-cov-2 in those samples, he said.  the cat recovered after 9 days,  van gucht said.   the hong kong govt is now asking that pets of infected patients must now be quarantined for 14 days.  the cdc gives the following advice  which is out of date based on the above :    if you are sick with covid-19  either suspected or confirmed , you should restrict contact with pets and other animals, just like you would around other people. although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with covid-19, it is still recommended that people sick with covid-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus. this can help ensure both you and your animals stay healthy.    when possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. avoid contact with your pet including, petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food. if you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with them. for more information visit: what to do if you are sick.   we do not have information on cows but presume that they may also be susceptible.  edit: experimental data suggests cats are more susceptible to the virus than dogs    the team, led by virologist bu zhigao, infected five domestic cats with sars-cov-2 through the nose. when two of the cats were euthanized six days later, the researchers found viral rna, as well as infectious virus particles, in their upper respiratory tracts.    the other three infected cats were put in cages next to three uninfected felines. the team later detected viral rna in one of the non-infected cats, which suggests that they contracted the virus from the infected cats through respiratory droplets. all four cats also produced antibodies against sars-cov-2. surveillance for sars-cov-2 in cats should be considered as part of efforts to eliminate covid-19 in humans, the authors note in the preprint, which has not been peer reviewed.   and    dogs, however, were less susceptible to the virus. the researchers infected five young dogs and found that two excreted viral rna in faeces, but none contained infectious virus.    similar investigations in pigs, chickens and ducks identified no viral rna in animals deliberately infected with the virus, or those exposed to the infected animals   http://www.wsj.com/articles/hong-kong-says-pets-of-coronavirus-patients-need-to-be-quarantined-11582888486  http://www.livescience.com/cat-infected-covid-19-from-owner.html  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/daily-life-coping/animals.html  http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2020/02/20/covid-19-vaccine-will-close-in-on-the-spikes/  http://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007 2f978-0-387-33012-9 93.pdf  http://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-00984-8 	
covid-19 has forced a suspension of at least 50  of financial transactions and business activities.   materially, not much has been lost: consumables have been spared, equipment is dormant, maintenance is mostly inexpensive. why is the health crisis expected to bankrupt many businesses  is most of the loss speculative   propery tax   land rental   20-25  of yearly rent, so a landlord can waive rent for 6 months and still make profit  enough to pay 2 years of tax and maintenance.   i naively imagine that using government moratoriums on bank-debt-interest rates and fees, it is possible for companies to organize a state of dormancy and maintenance for an extended period, without incurring significant loss.   can you give a summary of why it is not so simple, and why the losses are a lot worse than a financial and material dormancy    answer it creates losses.   first, many businesses do not own their own building/land/equipment. it is very common to lease these things. moreover, many business take out insurance that again has to be paid on monthly basis. in europe in many countries you need to pay workers certain portion of wages even when you can not call worker to work or even if they stay home sick.   the list here is not exclusive. the point is many business have non-trivial fixed costs that have to be payed whether business operates or it does not. furthermore, in short run even some variable costs - like wages to employees on production line are fixed  and in many countries this can be up to several months . hence, it is not like a dormant business have no costs.   you might ask why then we do not suspend for example these leases etc. but that just moves the problem to the different parties and does not eliminate this issue.   moreover, very large business might have enough financial cushion to absorb losses for few months, but there are many small-medium size business that can not do that. for example, consider a sole trader  a form of business organization where one person embodies a business  who has a repair shop with no employees just living month to month. that kind of businessman can not afford to go on hiatus for very long.  furthermore, if by long you mean not just weeks but several months or even year that would be issue even for the best cushioned business.  so yes the impact could be catastrophic. for example according to this vox blog the impact under some scenarios could be worse than recent 2008 crisis.   	
if covid-19 can float in the air over particles and be there for up to 3 hours  1:50 minute , and if the virus could get into your system through eyes, nose or mouth  see spread from contact with contaminated surfaces or objects section , then would not be better to use one of those suits to have full protection   if no, why   suits and face mask like these ones    the mask, only covers your nose and mouth, if used properly. what about the eyes protection then   answer in an ideal world everyone would have full body ebola type protection. in the world of practicality, the who has advised that this is a droplet, and surface spread infection. however, it is not discounting the possibility of aerosols especially during some medical procedures eg. induced coughing, and then a potentially ill fitting mask and goggles may not be enough even in a negative pressure room.  if the full protection is available people are using it. but there is a shortage of even basic masks in the usa and elsewhere. 	
i heard that the u.k. was talking about using a  herd immunity  approach to the coronavirus. what exactly is herd immunity, and could it work against coronavirus  answer last week, the u.k. government signaled that it might be considering a different approach to coronavirus control than the rest of the world -- in essence, allowing a large percentage of the population to become infected in order to develop a  herd immunity  that would eventually end the epidemic. herd immunity occurs when enough people in a population are immune to disease -- either because they have been infected and recovered or they have been vaccinated against it. the idea is that the pool of people who can catch the disease has been reduced, reducing the risk to the so-far unaffected. sir patrick vallance, the u.k. government is chief scientific adviser, said that about 60  of the population would need to get the coronavirus in order to get a herd immunity effect. but using such an approach would raise a big question: during that spread, how do you protect the most vulnerable groups - the elderly and those with underlying medical conditions  herd immunity works with contagious diseases like measles, for which a vaccine exists. but the idea that the u.k. would not immediately work to suppress the number of cases, especially as there are no approved treatments for covid-19 yet and the disease has killed thousands in italy, stirred an immediate public backlash. the government quickly backtracked, and on friday, prime minister boris johnson said all restaurants, pubs and gyms would close for the foreseeable future to reduce transmission. and there is no certainty that herd immunity would even work for coronavirus. that approach  assumes that people being infected are immune and cannot get re-infected. and we do not know that as of yet,  says albert ko, professor of epidemiology and medicine at the yale school of public health. people who go outside to exercise are sometimes shamed on tv and on social media for risky behavior. is it okay to go outside for a walk, run or bike ride  the white house coronavirus guidelines for the 15-day period that started monday advise avoiding  discretionary travel, shopping trips and social visits,  as well as  social gatherings in groups of more than 10 people.  but outdoor exercise is not on the list. so unless local guidelines instruct otherwise, fresh air and outdoor exercise are allowed - though it is important to keep some distance between yourself and others. the coronavirus is thought to spread primarily through close contact between people - within about six feet. the primary mode of transmission is through respiratory droplets. there is better airflow outside than in confined spaces. that air flow outside reduces the risk of one person transmitting the virus to another through droplets in the air, says albert ko, the yale epidemiologist.  so if you are going out and you are hiking or biking or running and you are not within, say, six feet or 10 feet of another person, i would consider that a healthy, safe practice.  ko also points to the significant mental health issues that can be caused or exacerbated when people are cooped up.  my personal feeling is that if people are practicing sound respiratory hygiene, sound hand hygiene, they are distancing themselves physically from others outside, and you are exercising and walking in the park -- i think that is actually a good public health practice. 	
what are areas where irs guidance might be helpful      answer the coronavirus relief bill is not yet law, and the irs has yet to provide information about how it plans to implement the provision about the rebates. on the irs is coronavirus landing page, the agency is telling people not to call it right now and to check back for updates at a later point.    tax experts are hoping that the irs issues guidance to clarify issues about eligibility when taxpayers  situations differ in 2018, 2019 and 2020, as well as guidance about which nonfilers now need to submit a tax return in order to receive a payment.	
subsequent to the democrats blocking the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security  cares  act in the us senate on sunday, march 22nd, in a 47-47 vote that was split along party lines, nancy pelosi and house democrats released their own counter-proposal titled the take responsibility for workers and families act.  given that the democrat bill     ...would prevent corporations from using taxpayer money for stock  buybacks, boost unemployment insurance, strengthen the child and  earned income tax credits and inject nearly  40 billion into schools  and universities to stabilize funding.    and also     ...directs billions of  dollars in grant funding for states to carry out this year is election  through the election assistance commission.   http://www.npr.org/2020/03/23/820155258/read-house-democrats-release-3rd-coronavirus-response-bill  what were the republican objections to the counter-proposal   answer house republican whip steve scalise has given a press release which outlines the objections of republicans to the bill, calling it a wishlist of  insane far-left policies . the objections in particular seem to relate to the amount of non-coronavirus related provisions within the bill. republicans argue that these measures are unnecessary, and an abuse of the pressure currently on congress to come up with a rescue package.  i will not reproduce the whole list of provisions that scalise has picked out as objectionable, but they include environmental reform policies, an increase to the minimum wage, a law to force companies to disclose board of director diversity statistics, and a requirement that unions should have a seat on airline corporate boards. many of these policies seem tangentially related, if at all, to the covid-19 crisis.  these concerns have been echoed by other republican groups, such as the republican house oversight committee, who tweeted:    speaker pelosi is  coronavirus bill includes:       provisions for a federal takeover of elections  a climate change study on aviation  intrusive corporate diversity reporting burdens      seriously  now is the time to help struggling americans, not play  swamp politics with virus aid.   usa today has published an opinion piece by james s. robbins on the bill, which describes it as a  christmas in march for liberal special interests . in particular, robbins takes umbrage with the changes that would be made to elections:    perhaps the most troubling sections of the bill are under the rubric    american coronavirus/covid-19 election safety and security  or    access  act. this section would impose requirements on states for  early voting, voting by mail, required mailing of absentee ballots to  everyone, ballot harvesting  i.e., having third parties deliver  absentee ballots , online voter registration, same-day registration  and other practices which undermine confidence in the integrity of the  ballot. in these days of increasing threats to election security we  should be moving rapidly back to in-person paper ballots, but this  bill would be a radical step in the wrong direction.  	
i have a scaffolding license with my neighbours which permits me to scaffold in their garden for an agreed period for an agreed price. the issue is that my construction work has stopped due to the uk lockdown and i would like my license to be paused. i do not have a force majeure clause in the contract and i do not want to keep paying the neighbours whilst no work is going on. what should i do   answer negotiate with your neighbour  force majeure in english law only exists if it is detailed in the contract. there is no general legal concept like there is in civil law jurisdictions. further, even if there was such a clause, it would need to capture covid-19 within the definition of force majeure either by defining it sufficiently broadly or by naming  pandemics  a one type of force majeure event.  english law has the much narrower doctrine of frustration but that requires that the supervening event becomes impossible, not just more onerous or expensive. it does not apply here.  it is also possible for a contract to have a change of law clause - this would probably apply to covid-19 since the proximate reason for your work stopping is likely a government regulation. however, these are generally worded to allow the payee to recover additional costs of complying with the law, not to reduce the payer is obligations. notwithstanding, i am guessing that your contract does not have one of these either.  in your case you are required to keep paying and the have the scaffold removed before the deadline or you will be in breach and liable for damages. under the terms of your contract, you took the risk of pandemics even if you did not know you were. 	
like many, i and my family are stuck indoors for the duration of covid-19. i would like to try growing plants on the available windowsills, preferably edible plants.  however, i have no ideas for what would practically work. what can grow, just on a window sill, in a plot, and be useful  location is uk, sse facing.  answer most edible plants need a lot of sun, so you might struggle to get any sort of a crop. best thing is to regard it as a fun experiment, rather than a way to feed the family. if possible, when it gets warmer    , stand the plants outside on an external window ledge for extra light. do not let the compost dry out. as with growing any fruit or veg,  1  only grow things you like, and  2  grow for taste. you could try herbs  basil, parsley, etc , cress, leaf salad. not sure if new potatoes would work, but worth a try if you have the room. personally, if i was going to try one thing on my windowsill it would be  gardener is delight  tomatoes. they are small and exceedingly tasty. i grew them for years down my allotment until i was beaten by tomato blight.   http://www.bbc.co.uk/gardening/digin/your space/windowsill.shtml 	
what about my summer vacation  should i cancel that  answer no one really knows what the course of the outbreak will be. some airlines have already announced cuts through may, and president trump has mentioned isolation measures lasting through july or august. the prevailing optimistic guess among experts for when the outbreak will abate hovers at about two months.	
can i have a playdate  answer probably not. you would have to stay about six feet away from your friend. maybe a bike ride or walk, with some distance between you  or you could try a video- chat if that is an option.	
how do i know if i have coronavirus  answer the most common symptoms of coronavirus are fever, sore throat, dry cough and fatigue. other symptoms can also include headaches, nasal congestion or a runny nose.  diarrhea and nausea have also been reported as symptoms but they are less common.	
what about imported animals or animal products  answer cdc does not have any evidence to suggest that imported animals or animal products pose a risk for spreading covid-19 in the united states. this is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available. the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention  cdc , the u. s. department of agriculture  usda , and the u.s. fish and wildlife service  fws  play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the importation of live animals and animal products into the united states. cdc regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, usda regulatesexternal iconexternal icon animals and animal products that pose a threat to agriculture  and fws regulatesexternal iconexternal icon importation of endangered species and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of wildlife resources.	
is it ok to go to the park in the neighbourhood for my morning walk  answer is it ok to go to the park in the neighbourhood for my morning walk  no. under the current circumstances, it is best to avoid outdoor activities. however, if you can find a time of the day when there is no one around, you can take a quick stroll.	
who is at higher risk for serious illness from covid-19  answer covid-19 is a new disease and there is limited information regarding risk factors for severe disease. based on currently available information and clinical expertise, older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions might be at higher risk for severe illness from covid-19. based on what we know now, those at high-risk for severe illness from covid-19 are:  people aged 65 years and older people who live in a nursing home or long-term care facility  people of all ages with underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, including:  people with chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma people who have serious heart conditions people who are immunocompromised  many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including cancer treatment, smoking, bone marrow or organ transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled hiv or aids, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications   people with severe obesity  body mass index  bmi    40  people with diabetes people with chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis people with liver disease  	
the world health organization indicates the covid-19 genome is detected in assays. once a patient tests positive, is there any reason not to expect that future instances of the same assay will result positive   answer there are two general categories of tests typically used for identifying viral infections: those based on viral genetic material and those based on host immune response.  the cdc page on mers-cov testing  also a coronavirus, just not the one that causes covid-19  is an informative resource to start with  bold added and reformatted by me :    molecular tests are used to diagnose active infection  presence of mers-cov  in people who are thought to be infected with mers-cov based on their clinical symptoms and having links to places where mers has been reported.    real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction  rrt-pcr  assays are molecular tests that can be used to detect viral rna in clinical samples.    serology testing is used to detect previous infection  antibodies to mers-cov  in people who may have been exposed to the virus. antibodies are proteins produced by the body is immune system to attack and kill viruses, bacteria, and other microbes during infection. the presence of antibodies to mers-cov indicates that a person had been previously infected with the virus and developed an immune response.   for some diseases, the primary type of test used is measuring immune reactivity  tuberculosis comes to mind.  however, tests currently being used for 2019-ncov are of the  molecular  type: rt-pcr assays detecting viral rna. viral rna is only present during an active infection. these tests can be used both when a patient is showing symptoms, to identify the infection, and also to retest later to show that the infection has been cleared. 	
about a month ago, i signed a lease for an apartment  with two roommates who are renewing their lease  in north carolina with a move-in date of may 15th. i am a stem graduate student, and with developing family finance concerns and the recent transition to remote everything both teaching and research related, i am beginning to think it may not makes sense to drain so much of my income to stay near a closed university rather than move in with my brother.  to my reading, the lease agreement states that breaking with more than 6 months remaining will incur a penalty of 2 months  rent. were i to attempt to back out in the next few days  well before the move-in date , could i expect the current national or state declaration of a state of emergency due to the covid-19 pandemic to impact my penalty  in particular, is there any legal reason to expect that, due to the state of emergency, i could avoid the penalty altogether   answer in general, you are not freed of contractual obligations if your circumstances change, whether that is because of economic downturn / unemployment, weather, or disease. if there is a clause in the lease saying  this lease can be voided if tenant  becomes unemployed / contracts a disease....   then that could cover your circumstances  i would be stunned if there were such a clause . there is a separate question, whether an exemption might arise if the government forbids you to move. the existence of a legal  state of emergency  has limited implications for legal rights and obligations - mostly, it empowers the government to restrict your rights. there is no effect on your responsibilities. 	
i have a sewing machine. should i make masks  answer the c.d.c.    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks-coronavirus- cdc.html  recommends  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks- coronavirus-cdc.html  that all americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. this shift in federal guidance, announced by president trump at a white house briefing, reflects    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html  new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html . those who are sick with the coronavirus  can help limit the spread  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/health/us-coronavirus-face- masks.html  of respiratory droplets by wearing a mask, and that applies to those who are asymptomatic or undiagnosed as well. plus, some organizations are using fabric masks as a temporary stopgap  civilians should not use  medical-grade masks  http://www.nytimes.com/article/face-masks- coronavirus.html , which are in short supply and must be reserved for health care workers on the front line . the sewing and craft alliance is continuously updating a list of  health care facilities  http://www.weneedmasks.org/list/  that have asked for fabric mask donations. the new york times and other news outlets had been reporting the c.d.c. is previous guidance.	
can i go out for a jog in the morning  answer can i go out for a jog in the morning  yes, but only individually	
during the covid-19 pandemic, ventilators are in short supply. as an engineer, i am interested in learning the risks/challenges of designing an opensource ventilator. and how it could be tested for proper functionality.  medical equipment has to rise to the highest standards, especially when it is required to work flawlessly in an emergency situation.  are there existing opensource ventilators projects  what requirements would a opensource ventilator have to fullfil   answer in the united states, any ventilator must fulfill:   safety and  efficacy    requirements as set forth in medical device standards.   sales of medical devices are regulated by the fda: a lengthy  data intensive  and paperwork intensive process. fda ventilator specific guidance within the context of covid respirator demand   i would suggest that you identify testable system requirements. the quickest way to learn is to operate an existing device: if you have access to a healthcare professional  anesthesiologist or respiratory therapist , he / she would be the best functional resource. a good starting point  do your homework before talking to anyone  is this functional explanation on youtube.   challenges for hacking a ventilator for the covid crisis comprises:   a design where parts  bill of materials  are readily available  100k to 1m devices needed  a testbed to demonstrate safety and efficacy testing   any required regulatory approval skilled labor to manufacture assemble and test   	
is the check based on my 2018 or 2019 tax return   answer under the plan, individuals who earn  75,000 in adjusted gross income or less would get direct payments of  1,200 each. but which tax return is that based on  if you have filed for 2019, that is what it would based off of. if you have not, it would be based off of 2018.	
my cat has been on royal canin feline urinary so dry food for a couple of years. however recently royal canin changed the formula for that food and it is making cats puke. all reviews starting january 2020 have pet owners reporting this problem.  i came across  purina pro plan focus urinary tract health formula adult dry cat food  which does not require a prescription. i would like to know if it is comparable to royal canin urinary so and if it can be safely substituted   answer i cannot make medical recommendations, since i am not a vet, but as pet-owner during covid-19 pandemic lockdown i suggest you call your vet is office. i was able to get a routine prescription over the telephone from my vet. my cat had been seen at the clinic last fall. since he is still growing, i had to weigh him on the bathroom scales so the vet could prescribe the right doze. another time, i called for medical advice that the person at the front desk was able to answer.   all this makes me think it might be worth giving your vet is office a call to ask for advice, since the vet seems to know your cat.  	
my wife and i live in a major us city  chicago  and are considering leaving for now to stay with family in a rural area a few hours away. our reasons for this are mostly safety, seeing some of the reactions to toilet paper/groceries being low makes us both very concerned for what kind of civil unrest might happen in the coming weeks.  our thoughts for why it would be good to go:   avoid possible looting/rioting/violence emotional reasons  being with family, having more space  easier to keep distance from people with a much smaller population around you   possible reasons to stay where we are:   possibly spreading the virus  my wife has had a light cough for a few days, but no other symptoms  health organizations asking us to stay put  although we would remain inside once we got to the new place  maybe we are just overreacting and the chance of civil unrest right now is very low   i would like to know if there are any official recommendations on if this kind of travel is discouraged/forbidden, or even unofficial reasons why one option might be better than the other. please let me know if this belongs in another network or if i should add/remove anything.  update:  thanks for the advice, you have all made us reconsider and we will be staying put to not risk spreading anything.  answer travel of this sort is either permitted or it is not. if there are restrictions on travel in your area you should follow them. if there are not then it is allowed.  for example, if you were in italy or france on this day  march 21 2020  then such travel would be forbidden - it is not essential travel. as i understand it there are no restrictions on internal travel in the us - but that is the situation today and it could be different tomorrow.  you should also listen to the advice of medical professional about what is discouraged. anything you do that increases contact increases the chance of spreading covid-19 is going to make the overall situation worse - and most kinds of travel will result in increased contact. if your medical professionals are asking you not to travel unnecessarily, do not do it. 	
when calculating how lethal a virus outbreak is, i have noticed that most sources use   confirmed deaths/confirmed infections   however, given that there are only 2 possible outcomes  death or recovery, would not it be more logical to use:  confirmed deaths/ confirmed deaths   confirmed recoveries    which formula is applicable to which situations   answer this may not strike most as a bioinformatics, but getting the key clinical outcome is essential in understanding the molecular basis of pathogenicity.  i think the mortality rate is over-reported. this is not to say the situation of 2019-ncov is not serious - it is very serious.  the two essential factors missing in your equation for 2019-ncov are:   age. mortality is likely skewed towards the old and very young seroprevalence. to identify the number of asymptomatic patients.   old people have a weakened immune system  e.g. reduced t-cell response . the very young have an underdeveloped immune system. the problem is hospital cases are skewed towards those with severe infection, which is likely the old and very young. in 2019-ncov the first infecteds were middle aged men, but likely to be restricted to those exposed to the  wuhan meat market .  problem  asymptomatic  spreaders  are known in influenza and are suspected in 2019-ncov. asymptomatics will inflate the mortality rate  because we are not detecting them .  solution s    one solution is to conduct seroprevalence surveys. serological surveys screening for antibodies  igg  against 2019-ncov will identify asymptomatic patients, using the first formula you stated. however, would you seriously go around the general population in a 2019-ncov epidemic taking blood samples  errhhh no. the bio-statistics approach is to use a catalytic model and critical to this is the age of the patient. catalytic models are a priori models that incorporates the age-prevelance profile of infection. by introducing the incidence and age of hospitalisation of e.g. the old and the young, the rest of the distribution, i.e. asymptomatics can be calculated by regression. this estimates the total population of infecteds and again you use equation 1 to calculate the mortality rate recorded by the hospital. mathematical models based on transmission dynamics. the problem here is the rate of transmission is unknown.   i would assume the hospital is the place virus-induced mortality is reasonably accurate.  the second formula you described works very well for ebolavirus, no-one has ever heard of asymptomatic ebolavirus. it would also work well for another betacoronavirus middle eastern respiratory syndrome. the key problem with 2019-ncov is we do not know the number of asymptomatic patients or patients with such mild infections they never report illness.   summary in summary, i think the mortality is being over-reported if it is based on your equation 2. equation 1, however, will also over-report the mortality rate. 	
the next us census is scheduled for 2020-04-01. in light of the recent covid-19 pandemic it might become necessary to delay this. how can this legally be done  since the census is required by the constitution    answer the date of the census is not specified in the us constitution. it only says    the actual enumeration shall be made within three years after the first meeting of the congress of the united states, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall by law direct.   there is no requirement that  ten years  be interpreted precisely to the day. the date is fixed by statute at 13 usc 141 a :    the secretary shall, in the year 1980 and every 10 years thereafter, take a decennial census of population as of the first day of april of such year....   this requires that the census seek data describing the population on april 1, 2020. it does not require that census workers actually visit people on that day. they could conceivably do it in mid august, for example, or at any other time. of course, that would probably reduce the reliability of the census. congress could pass a law moving the census date to another later date if they wanted to get a more accurate count of the population on that date instead of a less accurate count of the population on the first of april.    in fact, when i got home later in the day after writing this answer, there was a letter from the census bureau inviting me to submit my census survey through the internet. i did that a few minutes ago, so if i die in the next two weeks, the census will be off by one.  the letter i got says that if i do not fill out the survey online, they will send me a paper questionnaire. if i do not fill that out, someone will come to visit. the prospect of that happening on april 1st seems quite remote. 	
will retired seniors also get stimulus checks   answer so long as they are not listed as a dependent for someone else  and, as retirees, fall within the income thresholds , yes, they should receive a check.	
are college students eligible to receive the checks      answer if college students are at least 17 years old and are claimed as a dependent on their parents  return, their family would not receive any payment amount for them. a college student who filed his or her own return and was not claimed as a dependent on his or her parents  return would qualify for the rebates.	
how has the who responded  answer the who initially declared a global public health emergency, citing the potential of the virus to spread to countries not prepared to deal with the contagion. it declared the spread of the coronavirus a pandemic on march 11, 2020. the term is used when a disease has spread to several countries or continents, usually affecting a large number of people. more...	
can we travel from one city to another in personal cars  answer can we travel from one city to another in personal cars  no, most cities are under a lockdown	
alright, i am in  where do i apply  answer the online application for eidls has been open since monday. you can find it here. the feedback i have received so far is that it takes less than 30 minutes. you will need a profit and loss from january 31, 2019 - january 31, 2020. you will also need to unfreeze your credit report if you have frozen it. the sba determines initial loan size based on your credit score, not your ability to pay. you apply for the ppp through your local bank. yesterday, the sba offered a specific timeline for different applications.  starting april 3, 2020, small businesses and sole proprietorships can apply for and receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through existing sba lenders. starting april 10, 2020, independent contractors and self-employed individuals can apply for and receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through existing sba lenders. other regulated lenders will be available to make these loans as soon as they are approved and enrolled in the program.  just because your date is not here yet, it does not mean you can not start preparing for the process. you can find sba lenders here. you can find the sample ppp application here.	
what is the u.s. government doing to help the economy  answer on march 27, congress  passed a  2 trillion rescue package  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/us/politics/coronavirus-house- voting.html , the largest economic stimulus measure in modern history, to help the people, businesses and industries affected by the coronavirus outbreak. in its sheer scope and size, the aid plan is unprecedented and touches on every facet of american life. its components include stimulus payments to individuals, expanded unemployment coverage that includes the self-employed, student loan changes and much more.	
will warm weather stop the outbreak of covid-19  answer it is not yet known whether weather and temperature affect the spread of covid-19. some other viruses, like those that cause the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months. there is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with covid-19 and investigations are ongoing.	
what would be the situation for a visitor should they contract covid-19 and require hospitalisation whilst in the us    would it be classed as an emergency or secondary care  does the us provide emergency care free of charge  do charges vary e.g. by state or hospital    my question was prompted by this one is it safe for an esta waiver visitor to return to japan until the corona virus has been contained , which made me wonder about the financial risks of extending a visit, given that many travel insurance policies limit the length of each trip. for example, i have an annual travel policy but cover is limited to 45 days. it also excludes any epidemic or pandemic.  answer answering my own question:   as stated in a comment by  djclayworth, the us does not provide emergency care free of charge. charges do vary between hospitals, and us healthcare is the most expensive in the world. visitors contemplating extending their stay in the us because of worries about the extent of the epidemic in their country of residence should check that they have adequate insurance for the entire length of stay, starting from the date they arrived in the us.  	
recently due to covid-19 outbreak, india prime minister narendra modi declared  janatha curfew  on march 22 2020  sunday . even indian railways will not run. how to travel long distance in india during  janatha curfew     answer technically, if public trains and buses  or planes    are not operating, your options are limited.  i you are not part of an essential service, the only valid answer is stay home.   respect the curfew. if you do not you might get arrested or fined and told to go back home.  if you are part of the essential services, you should ask the relevant authorities how would it be possible to travel on that day, and if you can do your travel on saturday instead  for example if you absolutely need to be somewhere on sunday .  for example, if you are a medical doctor and need to go somewhere, there might be private buses/shuttles to move essential personel around the country, and will probably be controlled to make certain no one with signs of the virus gets on board. 	
coronavirus, hiv, 1918 flu, etc. they all come from animals. do any infectious diseases  in humans  come from plants  more specifically, are there viruses that infect plants that can mutate to infect humans   answer question     are there viruses that infect plants that can mutate to infect  humans     answer  none appear to have been reported so far. it is difficult to provide supporting evidence for an assertion that they do not exist, but a recent review on the relationship between plant and animal viromes does not include any examples, and our general understanding of the mechanisms by which viruses infect organisms and cells suggest that this is unlikely. there are, however, examples of plant viruses replicating in the insect vectors that transmit them.  evidence  in 2011 dolja and koonin of the nih published a review in current opinion in virology 1 322-331 entitled common origins and host-dependent diversity of plant and animal viromes. in this they considered:      ...three distinct scenarios for the origin of related viruses of plants  and animals: i  evolution from a common ancestral virus predating the  divergence of plants and animals  ii  horizontal transfer of viruses,  for example, through insect vectors  iii  parallel origin from related  genetic elements.    the very fact that there was a need to argue for a relationship indicates the assumed distinction between animal and plant viruses, and indeed they write:     ...plants are not known to support reproduction of dsdna viruses and  retroviruses.    the only reference in the whole article to an actual biological relationship between animal and plant viruses is the following:     strikingly, viruses of the order mononegavirales and the family  bunyaviridae... can also reproduce in their arthropod vectors.    the paper referenced in support of this statement is by hogenhout et al. and was published in the annual review of phytophathology  2008  46 327-359, and is entitled insect vector interactions with persistently transmitted viruses. from this it emerges that there is a class of plant viruses called persistent propogative viruses which replicate in the circulation of their insect vectors, in contrast to most types of circulative viruses. the insects involved include the leafhopper  illustrated below in fig 1 from that review  and the thrip.    schematic representation of persistent virus transmission by a leafhopper. viruses that are transmitted in a circulative persistent manner do not replicate in the insect and usually enter the salivary glands from the hemolymph. in plants, replication of circulative viruses is frequently restricted to the phloem tissues. in contrast, most propagative viruses replicate in several plant tissues and in different organs of the insect vectors   yellow arrows  and may enter the salivary glands either from the hemolymph or from other connecting tissues, e.g., the nervous system or trachea.   it is not clear to me whether the virus is in any way detremental to the insect vector -- certainly it is not the primary target of the virus, and replication can be regarded as allowing it to survive longer before the insect transmits it to the plant.  today insects, tomorrow people   the very fact that persistent propogative insect viruses can replicate in their animal vectors raises the question whether the insects could somehow transmit them to human beings. in an answer to a different question on whether insect pathogens can infect humans i have argued that the absence of examples in situations where people come into close contact with insects and the difference in anatomy and molecular structure of cell membranes makes this unlikely. in the present case we are not even talking about an insect pathogen, but a plant pathogen. 	
what precautions should be taken for animals that have recently been imported from outside the united states  for example, by shelters, rescues, or as personal pets   answer imported animals will need to meet cdc and usdaexternal iconexternal icon requirements for entering the united states. at this time, there is no evidence that companion animals, including pets and service animals, can spread covid-19. as with any animal introduced to a new environment, animals recently imported should be observed daily for signs of illness. if an animal becomes ill, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian. call your local veterinary clinic before bringing the animal into the clinic and let them know that the animal was recently imported from another country. this is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.	
everyone agrees that covid-19 did not originate in india and came from international travellers. why did not india ban incoming flights in early feb 2020 till the virus problem is over   is there any international travel rule which prohibits a country from refusing entry to its own citizens   answer   is there any international travel rule which prohibits a country from refusing entry to its own citizens    yes.    the right of return is a principle in international law which guarantees everyone is right of voluntary return to or re-enter their country of origin or of citizenship.     the right is formulated in several modern treaties and conventions, most notably in the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, the 1966 international covenant on civil and political rights and the 1948 fourth geneva convention. the geneva conventions, it has been argued, have passed into customary international law and that the right of return is binding on non-signatories to the conventions     the 1948 universal declaration of human rights says    article 13.     1  everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.   2  everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.  	
i stumbled upon this boiled down news article which makes the statement that if we get the doubling time for coronavirus cases above the incubation period  5.8 days , we will be able to effectively  flatten the curve .  could someone explain to me the logic behind that statement  can not wrap my head around it. even if the doubling time is 6 days, in theory  i realise the curve will naturally flatten as a result of population size and number of people already infected  you are still going to see an exponential increases in cases  i.e. 50000, 100000, 200000, 400000...   answer one of the issues with covid-19 is the fact that it is transmissible even by people who are asymptomatic. you have probably heard about r0, which is the basic reproduction rate of a disease, that takes into account transmission modes and contact rate, among other things. i am not an epidemiologist, but i am operating under the assumption that someone who is obviously sick will infect relatively fewer people than someone who is asymptomatic, assuming similar contagiousness - the sick person should quarantine themself and clearly take measures to avoid spreading their sickness. a seemingly well individual, on the other hand, may not reduce their contact rate and unwittingly spread the disease.   under this assumption, consider what happens when the incubation time is equal to the doubling rate. suppose we have 1000 individuals who have the disease, but do not know it yet because they are still in the incubation period. 5.8 days later, there are now 2000 people with the disease, 1000 of which now feel sick, and 1000 of which still feel fine. those 1000 sick people quarantine themselves, dramatically lowering their rate of infecting others, let is say to 0 for the sake of simplicity. 5.8 days later, the 1000 asymptomatic people now feel sick, after having infected another 1000 people, although the 1000 already-sick individuals have not infected anyone else. at this rate, we have a linear increase in the number of cases, since old cases are quarantining themselves at the same rate new cases are spread - the number of people spreading the disease unwittingly remains constant   i have made several assumptions here, like that the transmission rate for asymptomatic individuals is higher than that of symptomatic individuals  although some symptoms, like cough, increase infectivity, and not all symptomatic individuals quarantine appropriately . i am also not sure this is really an appropriate use of  doubling time  - strictly speaking, if 1000 people quarantine, and 1000 asymptomatic people infect 1000 others, it is not a doubling of cases. the statement also seems a bit of tautological red herring - if you are able to lengthen the doubling time, you have already flattened the curve, regardless of the incubation period. but i think the general idea is that a longer doubling time can lessen the impact of asympomatic, but contagious individuals spreading the disease. 	
how can people help stop stigma related to covid-19  answer people can fight stigma by providing social support in situations where you notice this is occurring. stigma affects the emotional or mental health of stigmatized groups and the communities they live in. stopping stigma is important to making communities and community members resilient. see resources on mental health and coping during covid-19. everyone can help stop stigma related to covid-19 by knowing the facts and sharing them with others in your community.	
what is the best protocol and criteria or policy for covid-19 novel coronavirus testing   during early u.s. infections, the criteria have been stringent due to limited test availability. as tests become more accessible, what should be the set of risk factors that direct people to get tested -- versus staying at home without getting tested   answer university of washington  uw medicine  suggests testing criteria on their site: http://covid-19.uwmedicine.org/pages/default.aspx  the following patients with covid-19 symptoms should be tested for covid-19:   patients hospitalized with severe lower respiratory illness   healthcare workers   patients in other public safety occupations  e.g., law enforcement, fire fighter, ems    patients involved in an illness cluster in a facility or institution  e.g., healthcare, school, corrections, homeless/shelters, other institution/congregate setting  the following patients with covid-19 symptoms should contact their healthcare provider and be tested for covid-19 if their symptoms worsen or their healthcare provider recommends testing:   patients older than 60 years   patients with underlying medical conditions   pregnant women younger, healthy individuals with mild illness do not need to be tested. they should stay home for 7 days or 72 hours after symptom resolution, whichever is longer. additionally, testing is not recommended in persons who are asymptomatic. a negative test result does not rule out an infection. there are currently no restrictions on who can be tested for covid-19 and commercial testing is becoming more available. healthcare providers may test any patient with symptoms consistent with covid-19  e.g., fever, cough, shortness of breath .  	
many state governments have declared temporary  shelter in place  statutes due to covid-19 that restrict unnecessary travel by vehicle. i know this will vary by jurisdiction: but generally, is the suspicion of unnecessary travel sufficient probable cause for a traffic stop and questioning the driver and passengers as to the nature of the travel  is probable cause not necessary under these temporary  shelter in place  statutes   answer a reasonable suspicion for a terry stop has to be based on  specific and articulable facts , and not based just on a hunch. a mere  feeling  that a person may be traveling unnecessarily would not legitimize a stop, but some concrete evidence could. for example, 8 teenagers in a car repeated driving a loop experientially looks like cruising, which is not in the category of necessary travel. 8 70 year olds doing the same is probably about as out of the ordinary, even if you can rationalize it as confused elders. 	
if i am wearing a mask and someone sneezes on me, would the mask offer some protection  answer yes. but only if you use the mask properly and do not touch it with your hands afterward. those droplets from a cough or sneeze would hit your mask instead of your mouth and nose -- good news. but the next step is to take the mask off by the ear bands and either wash or discard it -- without touching the front of it.  that is what i see all the time,  says griffin.  that is why in the studies, masks fail -- people do not use them  correctly . they touch the front of it. they adjust it. they push it down somehow to get their nose stuck out.  if you touch the front of the mask, whatever that person coughed or sneezed on it is now on your hands. as this video from the world health organization shows, you should take off your mask by removing the elastics or straps from behind your ears. do not touch the front, and keep the mask away from your face. one other thing: ideally you would have eye protection, too, to keep that stranger is sneeze from getting in. glasses and sunglasses are not perfect but can help.	
on healthline it is mentioned a recent study that came out of wuhan, china  it is published on a website, but has not yet been reviewed by peers.    in the study, scientists looked at the blood types of 2,173 people who had been diagnosed with covid-19 and compared that with the blood types of the general population in that region.    they found that in the normal population, type a was 31 percent, type b was 24 percent, type ab was 9 percent, and type o was 34 percent.    in those with the virus, type a was 38 percent, type b was 26 percent, type ab was 10 percent, and type o was 25 percent.    the researchers concluded that  blood group a had a significantly higher risk for covid-19 compared with non-a blood groups. whereas blood group o had a significantly lower risk for the infectious disease compared with non-a blood groups.    in  non-medical  or easy to follow terms/explanations, why is that   why does blood type a is more at risk   and why does blood type o has less risk   thank you in advance  answer in simpler terminology than used in the paper referred to, the observation has been made before that there is a blood group susceptibility to certain viruses, and that sars appeared to affect blood group o individuals less than group a.  group o individuals possess antibodies against the antigens displayed by group a individuals on their cells. these antibodies, anti-a, interfered with the binding of the sars-cov-2 spike protein to the ace2 receptor - like a form of neutralizing antibody or natural protection. their small studies suggested that group o individuals had 60  of the risk of the full population and group a individuals an increased risk of 120 . ab blood group risk ranged from 148-200  increased risk.  whether that is clinically useful remains to be seen. could pooled immunoglobulin from group o individuals help infected sick covid-19 patients  would any vaccine directed against this region of the virus be ineffective in group a/b individuals because they would be trying to create a vaccine against self antigens  	
italy now has the most deaths from covid. it is even above china in that list.  italian government asked for international help, some countries responded:   at first, china provided huge help then, suddenly, cuba send medical crew and then russia send military virusologists   it is a very surprising to me, that western media not provide information about western help programs - italy is a nato member since it foundation, and also member of eu.  are there any western programs for helping italy in fighting covid-19  i am sure there are - because it would be very strange if such alliances do not tight together on foreign threats.  answer the latest one from germany are 300 respiratory machines. i do not think that is labeled as either eu or nato. 	
it is my understanding that the majority of symptoms associated with the common cold  runny nose, inflamed sinus, slight fever  are essentially the result of the immune system is response.  i have never heard of someone dying of the common cold  unlike influenza , even in immune compromised people. as such, what damage would the cold virus inflict if there was no immune response  would it be catastrophic   answer can someone die of the common cold   no.  the common cold is a clinical syndrome restricted to upper respiratory tract involvement. by clinical syndrome, i mean it is the constellation of symptoms  rather than the consequence of a specific pathogen . as you mention, these symptoms are the result of the immune response, rather than tissue damage or compromised function as a direct effect of a pathogen or its toxin  e.g., the watery diarrhea in cholera .   as defined  see, e.g., cecil medicine ch. 369 , this clinical syndrome cannot lead to death.     the common cold is an upper respiratory syndrome of rhinorrhea and nasal obstruction, frequently accompanied by sore throat, sneezing, and cough.   can the viruses that cause the common cold cause death   yes. many viruses that cause the common cold also cause other clinical syndromes that can cause death. this occurs when viral replication moves to the lower respiratory tract. as an example, influenza viruses are responsible for 25 - 30  of common colds  see bennett, principles and practice of infectious disease, ch.58 . when it moves beyond the upper respiratory tract, influenza is responsible for substantial mortality. other virus families that are responsible for both a common cold syndrome and lower respiratory tract syndrome in immunocompetent individuals  e.g., bronchiolitis, pneumonia  include parainfluenza virus, metapneumovirus, adenovirus, and  rarely  coronavirus. rhinovirus, responsible for 40-50  of common cold cases, is uniquely unsuited to lower respiratory tract involvement, because of its preference for the cooler environment of the nasal mucosa, replicating best at 33 c  murray medical microbiology, ch 56 . however, in individuals with severe combined immunodeficiency  scid , lower respiratory tract involvement does occur. there are a number of case series reporting death due to lower respiratory rhinovirus. this is an example.  can the common cold lead to serious illnesses other than lower respiratory tract involvement   yes. other morbidity can occur as a result of the immune response that produces the common cold syndrome. rhinorrhea and congestion can progress to a viral rhinosinusitis, a separate syndrome with its own complications, or a secondary bacterial infection, which can lead to bacterial sinus involvement and/or bacterial lower respiratory tract infection. otitis media is another common complication, especially in children, and has its own potential complications. asthma  and, generally speaking, most lung diseases  can also be exacerbated by what would otherwise be a simple common cold and predisposes to lower respiratory tract involvement. asthma does deserve special mention, because rhinovirus associated exacerbations can be fatal, but this is a consequence of asthma rather than a common cold syndrome. further discussion of these syndromes are beyond the scope of the question, but are discussed briefly in the chapters referenced above. 	
we booked a holiday cottage in the uk for the end of july 2020. we neglected to purchase travel insurance when we booked it at the start of 2020  we have learnt from this mistake . we have already started paying the balance on this trip.  so now we are looking at purchasing travel insurance but we are concerned that the covid-19 lockdown currently in the uk, will invalidate any insurance we take out now. the optimistic estimates put the end of the lockdown around the 15th june.  is it worth us taking out the insurance now to protect our existing deposit/holiday or is likely that all insurance policies purchased now will be invalidated if there is an extension to the lockdown   any guidance on this is much appreciated.  answer generally speaking it is worth considering cover now for a future trip, but it is unlikely that a standard travel insurance policy regulated by the uk will cover you for covid-19 related problems. so far as i am aware, none will.  several uk insurers are not even selling travel insurance policies for the time being.  compare the market says in its online quote page:    following the world health organisation  who  declaring coronavirus as  a pandemic on the 11th march 2020, many insurance companies will  consider coronavirus to be a  known event . insurance providers may  exclude known events from elements of the cover they offer.    therefore for new policies purchased after the announcement ensure you  check the policy wording or contact the insurer to ensure the cover  meets your needs.   i think that is standard now.  you may find it difficult to speak with an insurer by phone as they are swamped with claims and requests for policy amendments and refunds.  if you do find such a policy as you want, make sure you thoroughly read all the documentation. 	
i am a master student expected to graduate in april. i want to work as an r/a for my thesis advisor after graduation and want to do a phd afterwards. however, the entire school is closed and i cannot meet him in person. when i asked him about meeting after the corona is over, he said  do not worry about graduation, you will be able to graduate online . it seems that he does not want to meet me, which makes me feel very depressed and anxious. my only option now is to write an email. i want to talk with him over several things:   is my thesis good enough that justifies doing a phd  if yes, is it possible that i publish it with him being coauthor  is it possible i become his r/a  even if my thesis is good, that is not a guarantee. what can i do to improve phd chance  will he write me a letter of recommendation    i think that asking all of these in one email is not a good idea. so i am thinking to start it with the email:    dear prof.a, i am very grateful for your advices for my thesis.  without you i would not have been able to graduate. i learned a lot  from you and now that the thesis is finished, i discovered my passion  for research and realize that this is what i want to do for the rest  of my life. i have some questions, i would be very grateful if you can  answer them:      do you think my thesis is good enough justify me going to phd. if it is good can we coauthor on my thesis and publish. that sounds a bit  too arrogant from my part, so i do not know how to word it.  is it possible i become your r.a. your research is very interesting and you taught me so much during our time working together . i wish to  learn more from you.  do you have any advice for me to get into good phd school       thank you so much again   regards,  b   can you give me some advice  i am very depressed and anxious to the point i cannot move for many days.  answer    do not worry about graduation, you will be able to graduate online    in this context, i would translate your advisor is thought process as:    this student sounds like they are anxious and worried about graduation. the best way i can help them worry less is to simply tell them not to worry.   nothing there about wanting to meet or not. indeed, if your advisor does not want to meet in person, it is more likely to stay out of the public and help contribute to reducing disease spread.  i think it is fine to write an email with some bullet points about things you would like to discuss further. thank them for reassuring you about graduation, but make it clear that there are in fact things you could use advice on besides just a path to graduating.  then you can ask whether the professor would prefer to discuss those things over email, to meet via phone or video chat  like skype, google hangouts , or to meet in person.  be as patient as you can be, because this is likely a stressful time for everyone. your advisor may not be able to meet or respond right away - do not let that worry you. 	
when will coronavirus end  answer at the moment, we do not know. it is a new virus, so experts are still trying to find out as much as they can about it. scientists are working on coming up with a vaccine for it though. once they have created a vaccine they will be able to treat it effectively. it is hoped there will be trials of a vaccine by the end of 2020.	
what is covid-19  answer covid-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 2019.	
why can not i just go to the doctor or the emergency room  answer  if you show up unnecessarily, you are taking care away from people who really need it,   writes tara parker- pope  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/well/what-if-i-have- coronavirus.html , columnist for well, the times is consumer health section.  before going to the e.r., stop and ask yourself,  would i go to the e.r. for these symptoms  a cough or fever  under normal circumstances   in most cases, the answer is probably no.  instead, you should call ahead and ask a doctor or the emergency room for advice. they are likely to have the most up-to-date information for potential patients in your area, and they will tell you what to do next.	
can antiretrovirals be used to treat covid-19  answer several studies have suggested that patients infected with the virus causing covid-19, and the related coronavirus infections  sars-cov and mers-cov  had good clinical outcomes, with almost all cases recovering fully. in some cases, patients were given an antiretroviral drug: lopinavir boosted with ritonavir  lpv/r . these studies were mostly carried out in hiv-negative individuals.it is important to note that these studies using lpv/r had important limitations. the studies were small, timing, duration and dosing for treatment were varied and most patients received co-interventions/co-treatments which may have contributed to the reported outcomes. while the evidence of benefit of using antiretrovirals to treat coronavirus infections is of very low certainty, serious side effects were rare. among people living with hiv, the routine use of lpv/r as treatment for hiv is associated with several side effects of moderate severity. however, as the duration of treatment in patients with coronavirus infections was generally limited to a few weeks, these occurrences can be expected to be low or less than that reported from routine use.	
will i get paid if i can not work  answer this may depend on whether you are permanent or casual. usually, if you are asked by your employer not to work  assuming you are a full-time or part-time employee , you would be entitled to be paid. however, that typically applies to natural disasters, and not a pandemic like covid-19. experts say that, unless there is a special clause in your enterprise agreement, employers may be able to stand employees down without pay. this will vary with each employer, so it is best to check with them. for casual workers and independent contractors, including gig economy workers, the situation is potentially more grim. according to fair work, if you are a casual employee needing to look after a family member who is sick with coronavirus, or suffering an unexpected emergency, you are entitled to just two days of unpaid carer is leave per occasion. after that, you will need to contact your employer to work out an arrangement. casual employees and independent contractors may qualify for the sickness allowance, a means-tested payment that provides up to  560 for singles without children and  1,010 for couples out of work due to illness. the government has waived the one-week waiting period to access the allowance. the federal government has increased existing payments for welfare allowances, and expanding eligibility criteria for new applicants, for six months to late september. you can apply for this without going into centrelink. more information here.	
during july 2019, i booked flight ua7938 for march 30 through united airlines for my honeymoon. with everything involving covid-19 happening, i am trying to see if i can get a refund for the ticket or an extension on the ticket. my main issue is that i do not know who is responsible for a potential refund. united is the marketing airline and ana is the operating airline.  united is waiving change fees for flights booked prior to march, which i can apply to my ticket online, but i would have to travel before july 2020. i do not know what kind of travel i can do before july and i do not want my money to go to waste. on the other hand, ana has been issuing refunds for all international flights booked prior to march. do i follow united is policies or can i follow ana is  has anyone had luck with similar situations   answer when you buy an airline ticket there are up to 3 separate airlines that can be involved for each leg of the flight. these are common known as :   the  marketing carrier . this is the airline who is flight number is on the ticket/itinerary. the  operating carrier . this is the airline who is aircraft will actually fly the flight. the  ticketing carrier . this is the airline that actually sold you the ticket.    the ticketing carrier will be the same for all legs of the flight on the same ticket. the other two can vary from leg-to-leg   in many cases, all 3 will be the same - you buy a ticket from airline xx, for flight xx123, which is flown by airline xx themselves.  in your case, all 3 are not the same. ua7938 is marketed as a united airlines flight  thus the ua flight number , but the operating carrier is ana. what we can not tell from the information you have provided is who the ticketing carrier is - and that is the one that actually matters here   if you purchased your ticket directly from an airline website, then you can be fairly sure that is the ticketing carrier. if you purchased it from a travel agency, then it is a little more complex. in general, if all flights on a ticket are for the same marketing airline  eg, all uaxxx flight numbers  then most likely the ticket was issued by that airline.  to be certain, you will need to check the ticket itself. in your email confirmation  or on the relevant website for where you bought the ticket  you should find a  ticket number  which is generally around 13 numbers long. the first 3 digits in this number show who the ticketing carrier is. if this number is 016, then your ticket was issued by united airlines. if it is 205, ana. if it is 014, it is air canada.  now, back to your original question. the policies that apply in a situation like this will be the policy of the ticketing carrier. that carrier might be influenced by the operating or marketing carriers policies, but officially it is the ticketing carrier that you have paid for your ticket, and it is them that has your money up until the time that you actually take the flight.  in your case it is most likely that united is the ticket carrier so it would be their policies that apply - but you will need to check the ticket number to be sure  	
can i make my home safer  answer so, you are at home, like millions of other americans. there are some simple practices there that you can follow to help reduce the risk of being exposed to or spreading the virus. always remember the basics, like washing your hands frequently  and reminding members of your household to do so  and having two weeks worth of meals and any other essentials. but do not forget about cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched surfaces daily  that includes the interior of your vehicle, like the steering wheel. and when doing laundry, use the warmest appropriate setting and dry items fully.	
why is the us so far behind other countries with testing  answer experts say it is due to cuts in federal funding for public health and problems with early testing.   problems with public health infrastructure two years ago, the cdc stopped funding epidemic prevention activities in 39 countries, including china. this happened because the trump administration refused to allocate money to a program that started during the 2014 ebola outbreak.   former cdc director dr. tom frieden warned that move  would significantly increase the chance an epidemic will spread without our knowledge and endanger lives in our country and around the world.   problems with the testing malfunctions, shortages and delays in availability have all contributed to the slowdown.   in the first few weeks of the outbreak in the us, the cdc was the only facility in the country that could confirm test results -- even though a world health organization test became available around the same time.   some test kits that were sent around the country were flawed -- a move that put the us behind about  four to five weeks,  says dr. rob davidson, executive director of the committee to protect medicare.	
where can i donate  answer  charity navigator  http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm bay content.view cpid 7779 , which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. more than 20,000 coronavirus-related  gofundme fund- raisers  http://www.gofundme.com/c/act/covid19  have started in the past few weeks.  the sheer number of fund-raisers  means more of them are likely to fail  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/style/gofundme-coronavirus.html  to meet their goal, though. 	
what personal protective equipment  ppe  should be used by healthcare workers  hcw  performing nasopharyngeal  np  or oropharyngeal  op  swabs on patients with suspected or confirmed covid-19  answer health care workers collecting np and op swab specimens from suspected or confirmed covid-19 patients should be well-trained on the procedure and should wear a clean, non-sterile, long-sleeve gown, a medical mask, eye protection  i.e., googles or face shield , and gloves. procedure should be conducted in a separate/isolation room, and during np specimen collection health care workers should request the patients to cover their mouth with a medical mask or tissue. although collection of np and op swabs have the potential to induce fits of coughing from the patient undergoing the procedure, there is no currently available evidence that cough generated via np/op specimen collection leads to increased risk of covid-19 transmission via aerosols.	
lombardy, a region of italy, registered many severe cases of covid-19 in the last few months. unfortunately the available data do not allow us to estimate the percentage p of people who contracted the virus in lombardy  please do not dispute this, but take it as an assumption . now, suppose we have a medical test that says wether a person contracted the virus or not  edit: let is assume that the test always gives the correct answer . how many people should we test to estimate p with sufficiently small error   data are:   10 million people live in lombardy. p can be assumed to be at least 4  . no assumption can be made about the uniform distribution of p, neither geographically, nor by age, gender or whatever. a satisfactory error percent on p would be 25 .   a related question is: how could we confirm the estimated error on p once we have the data  for example, could we bootstrap the data   thanks  answer this is actually a handbook example of determining the sample size needed for estimating binomial proportion  e.g. jones et al, 2004, naing, 2003 for other references and examples .  first of all, to make it more precise, we are talking about finding such sample size, that with probability   alpha , the difference between the true probability of being infected  p  and it is estimate   hat p  is not greater then   100 times delta ,          pr  p -  hat p   le  delta p     alpha     given that the target population is large, we would usually assume binomial distribution to represent it, i.e. we say that it is large enough, that the chance of randomly sampling someone more then once is negligible. the distribution is parametrized by probability of  success   here, probability of being infected   p  and the number of samples we draw  n . let is denote the observed number of infected people as  k , in such case,   hat p   k/n  is the fraction of infected people in the sample and we treat it as an estimate of the number of infected people in the whole population. if we wanted to calculate confidence interval for   hat p , we could use normal approximation      hat p  pm z  alpha  sqrt  frac  hat p 1- hat p   n       where  z  alpha  is the ordinate from standard normal distribution, where for  z  drawn from standard normal distribution we have   pr -z  alpha  lt  z  lt  z  alpha     alpha . you are saying, that you would like to see this interval to be equal to   hat p  pm  delta p . as discussed in the linked resources, you can solve this, so that for given  p , precision   delta , and certanity   alpha , you can guesstimate the sample size needed     n  approx  big  frac z  alpha   delta p  big  2    p 1-p      assuming   100  times  alpha      99    confidence interval, we can plot this for different values of  p , to find out that for  100  times p  gt  4     the needed sample sizes are generally not much larger then  2000  samples.    for example, for  p 0.04    4    infected  this yields:     gt  z  lt - function alpha  qnorm alpha   gt  n  lt - function p, alpha 0.99, delta 0.25   z alpha / p delta   2   p  1-p   gt  n 0.04   1  2078.167   to convince yourself, you can verify this by simulation, where you would draw  n  samples from binomial distribution with probability of infection  p , repeat this procedure  r  times, and then verify how often was your result not further then   100  times  delta      from the true value:   gt  set.seed 123   gt  sim  lt - function p, n, delta, nsim 50000  mean abs p - rbinom nsim, n, p /n  / p  lt   delta   gt  sim 0.04, 2078, 0.25   1  0.97858   so we wanted to be  99    sure and the approximation gives us, while the in the simulation, in  97.8    cases the result was within the interval. not bad.  notice that this is just a simple approximation for the calculation, assuming simple random sampling. in case of whole population locked in their houses, sampling individuals at random may be not as hard as in case of most of the usual surveys. on another hand, things may not go as smooth as planned, or you may be willing to use other sampling schema, to have higher chance for it being representative, what would make calculating it more complicated. moreover, the tests used are not perfect and give false results as described, for example by new york times, or washington post, and you would need to account for that as well. also you need to remember, there were many examples where such simple problems get more complicated then expected, e.g. social surveys on trump is support before the election got very wrong, nonetheless that they used state of art survey methodology. 	
how can you clean soiled bedding, towels and linens from patients with covid-19  answer all individuals dealing with soiled bedding, towels and clothes from patients with covid-19 should: wear appropriate personal protective equipment, which includes heavy duty gloves, mask, eye protection  face shield/goggles , long-sleeved gown, apron  if gown is not fluid resistant , boots or closed shoes before touching any soiled linen.never carry soiled linen against body  place soiled linen in a clearly labelled, leak-proof container  e.g. bag, bucket if there is any solid excrement on the linen, such as feces or vomit, scrape it off carefully with a flat, firm object and put it in the commode or designated toilet/latrine before putting linen in the designated container. if the latrine is not in the same room as the patient, place soiled excrement in covered bucket to dispose of in the toilet or latrine  wash and disinfect linen: washing by machine with warm water  60-90degc  and laundry detergent is recommended for cleaning and disinfection of linens. if machine washing is not possible, linen can be soaked in hot water and soap in a large drum, using a stick to stir, avoiding splashing. if hot water not available, soak linen in 0.05  chlorine for approximately 30 minutes. finally, rinse with clean water and let linen dry fully in the sunlight.additional resources for best practices for environmental cleaning can be found in the following two documents: 1  infection prevention and control of epidemic-and pandemic prone acute respiratory infections in health care2  best practices for environmental cleaning in healthcare facilities in resource-limited settings which was developed by cdc and ican in collaboration with who	
my instructor residence status for japan is valid until 2022. i left japan two months ago to visit my country of citizenship, the us, with the intention of returning and starting a new job before 90 days had elapsed. due to unforseen circumstances, i am having to postpone my return to and employment in japan until august or september.  i notified immigration using the required form within several days of finishing my last employment, and got a  special re-entry permit , valid for 1 year, stapled in my passport at the airport when i left the country  i have my zairyu card . however, my understanding is that my residence status can be revoked after 90 days of not engaging in my  designated activity .  if i accept an offer for a job in japan starting in august or september, what should i do about my residence status  do i assume it will be cancelled when i pass the 90-day mark  do i need to request that immigration cancel it before an employer applies for a new coe on my behalf  or is there a way to keep it valid until my return   answer according to item 2-vi in the following link about revocation of status of residence, your residence status is not automatically revoked at the 90 days mark.  http://www.immi-moj.go.jp/english/tetuduki/zairyuu/torikeshi.html    where a foreign national staying in japan with the status of residence  listed in the left-hand column of appended table i of the immigration  control act note  has failed to continue to engage in the activity  corresponding to that status for three months or more  excluding the  case where the foreign national has a justifiable reason for not  engaging in the said activity     the list of status of residence in the left-hand column of appended table i is as follow.      note  the status of residence listed in the left-hand column of  appended table i of the immigration control act    diplomat  official  professor  artist  religious activities   journalist  business manager and administrator  legal/accounting  services  medical services  researcher  instructor  engineer and  specialist in humanities/international services  intra-company  transferee  entertainer  skilled labor  technical intern training   cultural activities  temporary visitor  student  trainee  dependent   designated activities   which reason qualifies as justifiable is up to the immigration bureau. however, assuming that you cannot return to japan because of the current covid-19 pandemic, i think you have a good case to justify your absent. 	
i wrote an email to my professor yesterday to ask makeup exam. but he does not reply until now.  test was taken a week ago. but, i can not take it because of family emergency my grandfather passed away  and sudden move into new room  my hostfamily kicked me out without prior notice.i think the reason is outbreak of covid-19, and i am asian . those are my nightmare    in your opinion, can he admit my makeup test  and why does not he reply my email...   answer expecting an overnight reply to any email is unrealistic. he may have some issues of his own to deal with, given the worldwide pandemic. he will probably reply  in good time , but by his standards.   whether you are allowed to take a make up or not we can not say here. it is up to him and to the institution. i hope it is allowed and expect it would be given the family emergency. but the other things you mention have little bearing on the issue.   but waiting a week after the missed exam was not wise, and expecting an instant reply after you did not offer an explanation for a week is a bit  over the top .   i suggest that you wait to see what the reply is. there probably is not really a need for instant action at this point.  	
i will try and make it short. my spouse will be arriving at an airport in germany from a non-eu country outside europe and she will need documents, which i have in original, in order to pass, given covid-19 restrictions. normally she would enter on a 90 days tourist visa, as we do not yet have a long term family reunification visa.   how can i reach the border control at the airport, in order to hand her/help her at the border, with the required document in original, in order for her to be allowed to enter as my spouse  documents would be our marriage certificate and proof of my residency in germany, i am a eu citizen living in germany and my spouse is moving in with me, so we will then further proceed in germany for a long term visa for her.  ps:    no, we did not plan for things to happen like this. we planned for me to go to her and then come back together. covid-19 really messed things up. i did think i could send the documents to her by post, but that feels extremely ridiculous given that i can wait for her with the documents at the airport   it would be very very concerning, if the originals get lost in the post, given the chaos caused by covid, as her country is on the other side of the world from germany.   edit - appreciate all the answers.   i have reached out to the relevant bundespolizei and their answers are very cautious in this new world. i have sent out via 3 separate e-mails and received more ore less the following answer back from all 3:  without a residence permit, third-country nationals are not allowed to enter the country for the next thirty days. to what extent an exception is possible in your situation cannot be answered at the moment. in the course of your personal responsibility you/your wife should generally refrain from travelling   so they have no clue how to address this. we have sent e-mails to the german embassy as well, to see if we can clarify via themselves, since the bp are asking for a residence permit or some kind of visa, where none should be required in the case of a eu nationals  wife and which we can really only get in germany now, since all relevant documents are here with me.   answer   normally she would enter on a 90 days tourist visa, as we do not yet have a long term family reunification visa.   your wife will never get a long-term family reunification visa because such visas are not issued to beneficiaries of the free movement directive.  as a beneficiary from a so-called  annex ii  country  that is, a country whose citizens do not need a visa for short visits , your wife is supposed to enter without a visa and then apply for a residence card after entering germany.  the trick, of course, is to find specific information about how the travel ban is being applied to non-eu citizens who enjoy freedom of movement through a family relationship but who do not yet reside in germany. this may be difficult as the number of such cases is probably small and the possibility may not have been considered by the people writing the policies.  the best i have been able to find so far is at http://www.germany.info/us-en/coronavirus/2317268  emphasis added :    eu-citzens and citizens of great brtain, iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland and their family members will be allowed to transit through germany to reach their home countries.   this suggests that beneficiaries of the free movement directive are included among those who may enter germany. your wife might want to say that germany is her place of residence  which is arguably true  but that she has not yet lived there long enough to get a residence card  which is certainly true . alternatively, she should call the german authorities and ask them what to tell the airline. to that end, see how to contact border authorities in eu/schengen countries  on this site.  regarding the documents, you might try asking the airline if they will pass them to her when she gets off the plane. my wife was in a similar situation recently, and that was the solution.  part of this process was that the airline employee in the destination airport made a note in the airline is system that the documents were sufficient. this was necessary for her to be able to board the plane without having the documents with her. this may also prove necessary in your wife is case. 	
can i touch and hold my newborn baby if i have covid-19  answer yes. close contact and early, exclusive breastfeeding helps a baby to thrive. you should be supported tobreastfeed safely, with good respiratory hygiene  hold yournewborn skin-to-skin, and share a roomwith your babyyou should wash your hands before and after touching your baby, and keep all surfaces clean.	
the way countries and people fighting covid-19 these days is by quarantine so no one get infected and stop spreading the virus.  this method slow down the spread of the virus  we know that covid-19 is easily transmitted virus, it can be transmitted by beath, touch, etc.  in the other hand hiv is more serious and have been for more 40 years and can be trasmitted sexually or blood transfusion..  hiv can be controlled easier.  why hiv was not stopped using the quarantine method to stop it from the begining    and why not trying to contaminate the virus now and stop it by using same methods used for covid-19   answer someone who is been infected by covid-19 is asymptomatic but can spread the disease for no more than 14 days. quarantine measures were started in china less than two months after the first case.  someone who is been infected with hiv can be asymptomatic but capable of spreading the disease for 20 years or more. further, the outbreak started sometime between 1910 and 1959, but was not identified as a disease until 1981.  given the long asymptomatic period of hiv and the even longer delay in identifying it as a disease, it is pretty much impossible to stop it by quarantine. 	
will it go away in the summer  answer will it go away in the summer  flu fades each spring and the new virus may do the same, fauci said last week in a podcast with a journal editor.  i am hoping that as we get into the warmer weather we will see a decline that will give us a chance to get our preparedness up to speed,  fauci said. but that, too, is far from certain.  we have to assume that the virus will continue to have the capacity to spread, and it is a false hope to say yes, it will just disappear in the summertime like influenza,  said dr. michael ryan, the world health organization is emergencies chief. flu viruses also mutate quickly, requiring new vaccines to be made each year. if the coronavirus follows suit, frieden said,  it could become a virus that circulates around the world for many years to come. 	
what steps should parents take to protect children during a community outbreak  answer this is a new virus and we are still learning about it, but so far, there does not seem to be a lot of illness in children. most illness, including serious illness, is happening in adults of working age and older adults. however, children do get the virus and become ill. many schools across the country have announced dismissals for temporary periods. keep track of school dismissals in your community. read or watch local media sources that report school dismissals. if schools are dismissed temporarily, use alternative childcare arrangements, if needed. if your child/children become sick with covid-19, notify their childcare facility or school. talk with teachers about classroom assignments and activities they can do from home to keep up with their schoolwork. discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of covid-19 in the community.	
i am a researcher in high-performance computing  with very little bioinformatics background , and i am trying to understand what are the current biggest computational bottlenecks of softwares used for research on the topic of covid-19  testing, vaccine development, drug identification, etc... .   i know this is a very broad question, but i am looking for the biggest common denominators. said differently, if you could pick a few operations / algorithms / data structures to speed up covid-19 research and they would magically run 1000 times faster, what would they be   note: links to books, papers, and scientific literature are very welcomed.  answer i can only speak of drug design  and even then i am terrible at turning down the jargon .  in the case of drug design, this is pretty much plan c. namely, none of compounds that entered clinical trial at the start of the year work  let is call this plan a  and none of the vaccines that are entering now clinical trial work  let is call this plan b although vaccination prevents so is a better solution . clinical trials take a lot time as they need to be thorough  cf. the infamous thalidomide from the days with more lax testing   there are several bottlenecks in drug design. these are technical based on our imperfect understanding of things, which results in less than ideal models. cpu time is not really an issue. empirical validation is required at many steps along the way. this is greatly increased by automation. the xchem team at diamond light source have done a fragment-screening against the sars-cov-2 main protease at an insane pace: things are changing fast   drug screen  there are many ways to make a drug. in one way, a test system was set up  a reporter assay  that gives you a measurable read-out, say mm of clearance of bacteria on a petri dish  viability  around a cellulose dish soaked in different separated natural extracts --and you might find that penicillium chrysogenum has a compound of interest. what you are doing is drug screen. screening a large panel of compounds  of varying purity  does not necessarily require knowing the protein target.  rational drug design  fast forward to this decade and it becomes possible to predict the free energy release upon binding of a small molecule against a protein --mostly.  this requires a solved 3d structure of the protein by x-ray crystallography. crystallising a protein is a tricky business, as a pure protein sample has to come out of solution in a folded form to form a neat lattice as opposed to just making unfolded gunk. what salt conditions work  anyone is guess. some have done deep learning on it, but the best solution is to have a robot try a very large range of combinations.  once you have a protein structure you can predict what fits into the part that you want to target, say an active site or an interface. this is not done by simple cartesian geometric shape fitting like lego bricks as there are many molecular forces involved. so a mathematical model of these forces is made, called a force field. many have been made, a lot of study has gone into these, but they are not perfect. it is all made worse by the fact that we cannot really model water properly --most models use a proxy  implicit solvent  or use non-polarisable water. this is all while made worse by the fact that a protein is not static but wobbles  following the same mathematical models . so a ligand does not slot in really like a key in a lock, but has an induced fit. modelling all this is accurately is problematic, but one can still try: calculating where exactly a ligand binds to a protein is called for which one gets energy difference upon binding. and one can try an inordinate amount of small molecules --zinc db contains 230 million purchasable compounds. this is called a virtual screen. one can even start with the natural substrate and  weaponise it  by adding chemical groups that do a chemical reaction that breaks the protein. however, a metabolite is very different from a drug  cf. lipinski is rule of five  as the latter must cross membranes etc. but generally the accuracy is not great without multiple steps of empirical validation.  to improve the results from a virtual screen the most common approach is to do a fragment screen to guide it. this is to automatedly soak protein crystals with a large library of small compounds and see which crystal contains a bound hit. the hits can be expanded into bigger fragments in a virtual screens and the short list of compounds tested  these are not cheap  by soaking and crystallising again. in the case of covid19 virus, the cool thing is that this whole process is open in the aforementioned current campaign  diamond is a government owned synchrotron and not a big pharma . what is really nice about this is that for the second cycle comp-chemists from everywhere have done their own guided virtual screen and have submit compounds  which you can see publicly .  it should be said that drug screens that are not rational design are still a thing. the recent antibiotic-discovering deep-learning paper in cell 6 is such an example, although it should be said that it was a feat not only in ai but also in automated empirical testing.  future  automation via better and open software will definitely improve. with a small drive possibly from the dissemination of easy to use and to code off-the-shelf electronics, such as rasperry pis or arduinos. but mainly with more complex machines such as the opentron system  a python-controlled robot .  but indubitably where the greatest improvement can come is better mathematical models. possibly even with deep learning. after all researches were amused last year-ish  2018 competition  when deepmind  won  the protein 3d structure  fold  modelling competition  casp13  and there have definitely been some really nice results in the field of docking with hybrid models. so deep-learning may still surprise us yet...  lastly, open science will be a strong driver: using premade packages or tools on github and code snippets from stackoverflow etc. will accelerate these. 	
is there a vaccine, drug or treatment for covid-19  answer not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care. possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing.	
how can i exercise if i am cooped up all day  answer gyms are closed, and you can not get close to people, so contact sports are out of the question. but it is still possible to get your heart pumping and body moving.  a running boom is taking off  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/sports/running-exercise- coronavirus.html , courtesy of the coronavirus, and several gyms, health clubs and yoga studios are now  offering classes online  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/style/self-care/isolation-exercise- meditation-coronavirus.html .  every little bit of movement counts,  said dani johnson, a physical therapist at the  mayo clinic healthy living program  http://healthyliving.mayoclinic.org/ .  so when we are confined to our home, move, move, move.  you do not need fancy equipment or a lot of time  you just need to weave exercise into your schedule.	
if you have been in isolation because one person in your household is sick, do you have to continue to stay home for another two weeks if another person falls ill  answer for people living in households with multiple residents, it may be difficult to avoid infecting each other. dr. isaac bogoch says that if someone becomes sick with covid-19, the best course of action is to call the local public health authority.   it is extremely important to call the local public health hotline to discuss the exact situation so they can give you very specific recommendations based on your unique setting,  he told ctv is your morning.  in general, though, it appears the answer to that question may be a  yes.  phac says that anyone who has been in contact with a suspected, probably or confirmed case of covid-19 should self-isolate for 14 days, starting at the time of contact.  this approach was taken by prime minister justin trudeau, who entered self- isolation with his family after sophie gregoire trudeau tested positive for the virus. once his wife was given the all clear, the prime minister said he would  remain in isolation  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/trudeau- says-he-ll-keep-self-isolating-announces-new-help-for- charities-1.4873202 until it had been two weeks since their last contact before the clearance.  	
i read an interesting article about two strains of the coronavirus: http://www.newscientist.com/article/2236544-coronavirus-are-there-two-strains-and-is-one-more-deadly/  i would like to know how the scientists used to classify a coronavirus as l-strain and s-strain. and more specifically i would like to have the genome the dna  for a l-strain and a s-strain.  answer article links to this publication which has all the information needed: http://academic.oup.com/nsr/advance-article/doi/10.1093/nsr/nwaa036/5775463  it is mentioned in the paper that:    although we found only 4  variability in genomic nucleotides between  sars-cov-2 and a bat sars-related coronavirus  sarsr-cov  ratg13 , the  difference at neutral sites was 17 , suggesting the divergence between  the two viruses is much larger than previously estimated.   their results highlight evolutionary changes in the development of new variations in functional sites in the receptor-binding domain  rbd . these developmental variations have a spike in changes to the rbd of sars-cov-2 and viruses from pangolin sarsr-covs  how do they define s and l variations   they did population genetics on 103 available sars-cov-2 genomes. these two major types are well defined by two snps which show complete linkage across the viral strains.  it also important to mention that sars-cov-2 was found to have 96.2  similairty to a bat sars-related coronavirus  sarsr-cov  ratg13  but not very similar to sars-cov  79   or mers-cov  50  .  how do we know that there is two type   we know there is two types because from the 103 sequenced genomes two snp locations show significant linkage. these are snps at location 8,782  orf1ab: t8517c, synoniumous  and 28,144  orf8: c251t, s84l .  if you have a  ct   as in base pairs  haplotype sars-cov-2 you have got the l-type   l  type because t28,144 is in the codon of leucine . otherwise, if you have got a  tc  haplotype you have the s-type  c28,144 is in the codon of serine .  they found that s-type is the ancient  less aggressive version  by aligning it with other older viruses. in fact for each variant of the virus the ancestral state was inferred by alignments of sars-cov-2  nc 045512 , ratg13, and gd pangolin-cov.  so to be more precise on my answer for finding s and l types. you sequence the genome of an infected individual  you can find these online on ncbi  align it with the current reference sequence  mn908947, nc 045512 , look at the snps and figure if they have a  ct  or  tc  haplotype to determine s or l type. 	
uk government promises to pay 80  of wages for people unemployed due to coronavirus. i am not economist, so i am probably missing something, but should not paying wages to unemployed due to coronavirus result in inflation due to decreased products and services created by economy  is that just a mechanism to redistribute wealth   answer not by itself. the inflation generally depends on the following monetary relation:     mv  py    where m is money supply, v velocity of money  how much one buck is used in economy , p is the price level  change in which is inflation , and y is a real output.  now solving for p so we can focus on inflation gives us:    p  frac mv  y     hence price level  and consequently  increases when money supply increases, velocity of money increases or output decreases.  now let is analyze giving money to those unemployed.   is it newly created money  if not then money supply will not increase. if yes then it would increase inflation rate. redistribution generally does not affect velocity of money much so we can skip that. does this change the output y  well not by much those people are already unemployed. if anything it could increase y as unemployed have probably high marginal propensity to consume so in short run redistribution from a richer person with lower marginal propensity to consume will increase y. especially if this spending was not paid out of higher taxes but from debt.   so a priori as long as it is not financed through printing new money it should not really have effect on inflation. inflation is ultimately a monetary phenomenon.  also, yes it is a redistribution mechanism like most of the things that uk government does. any policy that uses government funds as a transfer to others, or fund non-public good services  like nhs for example  is a redistributive measure. 	
the covid-19 outbreak has been dominating the news recently, with loads of headlines and efforts being made to stop it from spreading.  why this disease  it is not one of the most lethal ones, or one of the deadliest. compare:   covid-19 - infected 24,478  deaths 492 malaria - infected 228 million  deaths 405,000  2018 data  tuberculosis - infected 25  of world population, i.e.  2 billion  deaths 1.6 million  2017 data  hiv/aids - infected 37.9 million  1.7 million new cases a year  deaths 770,000  2018 data    compared to malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/aids, the covid-19 outbreak is pretty much a rounding error.  in terms of lethality, covid-19 has a case fatality rate of 1.4-6.5 . this is still well below the lethality of tuberculosis  43   and hiv/aids  80-90  after 5 years if untreated , although it is more lethal than malaria   0.3    it seems like, objectively, covid-19 is a very small fish in the pond of infectious diseases. it is not like the three diseases above are unique either  there are lots more diseases that affect  amp  kill more people than ncov  e.g. measles, leishmaniosis . yet, right now, when people die of covid-19 they make the news, while thousands of people die of the other three diseases every day without getting a mention. further, covid-19 is apparently attracting lots of research efforts to treat it. why is it being prioritized over other infectious diseases   i am looking for objective answers as to why covid-19 matters so much.  answer the short answer to this question is that 2019-ncov is new. all the other diseases you mentioned are known quantities: epidemiologists have a good idea how they behave, how they spread, what is likely to happen in a variety of different scenarios, etc. but this disease represents a new mutation that behaves differently from other coronaviruses. it is far more transmissible than other coronaviruses, and worse, seems to be transmissible through casual contact: not intimate contact, blood or fluid exposure, not through an intermediary vector like a tick or flea. currently the death toll is low, but researchers simply do not have enough data to know whether that trend will continue.   remember, the death rate of influenza is lower than that of this coronavirus. the 1958 and 1967 influenza pandemics had death rates of about 0.1 , and the 1918 pandemic had a death rate of about 2.5  . but those pandemics killed millions because they were so transmissible they infected hundreds of millions. if the coronavirus follows that pattern and turns pandemic, we might expect to see any city of a million or so people suffer 20,000 to 30,000 deaths over the course of a couple of months  say 400-500 per day , which is a huge number of people dying by any calculus. discretion is definitely the better part of valor, here. 	
our college is switching to teaching online mid-semester in hopes of slowing the spread of covid-19. all the molecular model kits are still on campus. how could you build a model of tetrahedral coordination  say methane  from materials found at home   i am aware of computer visualizations  and will make those available , but i think having a physical model when first encountering three-dimensional structures adds value. i made a model from lawn toys  see below , but these are not common household items.    answer inflate balloons, and tie them   at their stem   like a bouquet of flowers. if you take four of them, not too much inflated, you well demonstrate a situation close to  sp 3  hybridization. these models equally work well in larger lecture halls by the way, and intentionally using different colors allows many options.     source      screen photo  you need some worked examples  see videos like this or this.  you need a scientific paper  well, there are as well, e.g., this  open access  expanding the picture to extended   pi -systems:     	
according to the data on the johns hopkins coronavirus tracker, as of 3rd february 2020 there were 17491 confirmed cases of covid-19 globally, 536 total recoveries and 362 deaths. from my non-expert calculation this implies a mortality rate of:   nd /  nd   nr     100   41   where:  nd is the total number of deaths, nr is the total number of full recoveries.  this leaves 16593 people still suffering from the disease who have neither recovered or died.  this is in stark contrast to the publicly disseminated value of  2  mortality, so have i made a mistake in my calculation or assumptions, or is covid-19 much more dangerous than commonly claimed     after a helpful discussion in the comments, amortality rate  is not the correct term to use here, instead i should say  case fatality rate .   answer the definition of mortality rate that you have given does not match any practical definition i am familiar with.   when people talk about the mortality rate of a disease, what they usually mean is the case fatality rate or the death-to-case ratio, which is simply defined as nd / ni, where nd is the number of deaths attributed to the disease over a given time period and ni is the total number of new cases of the disease observed during the same time period. by this definition, the current case fatality rate of 2019-ncov according to your quoted figures is 362 / 17491     2.07 .   the tracker seems to have been updated since you asked your question, and now lists a total of 20679 confirmed cases and 427 deaths, for a cfr of 427 / 20679     2.06 .      as a theoretical definition of the mortality rate in the long run, when all infected patients have either died or recovered, it can sort of make sense. but then it becomes equivalent to the usual definition of the case fatality rate.    to compare this with your definition of  mortality rate   as nd /  nd   nr , where nr is the number of individuals who have recovered from the disease , we need to start by observing that there is no single universal and unambiguous definition of what  recovering from a disease  means. commonly used definitions tend to be something like  no symptoms for x days  and/or  viral load below n particles per ml for x days  or simply  whenever a doctor declares that you are healthy again and lets you out of the hospital .  now, let is say that we are using a  somewhat  objective definition of recovery like  no detectable symptoms for two days . the first observation is that any epidemic first observed less than two days ago would, according to your definition, inevitably have a mortality rate of 100  simply because none of the people infected so far would have had time to be considered definitely recovered yet.  that is assuming that at least one person had died from the infection  otherwise both the numerator and the denominator would be zero, and the rate thus undefined.   further, even after some of the earliest cases have been symptom-free long enough to be counted as recovered, your definition would still yield a highly upwards biased estimate of the  true  long-term fatality rate during the early phase of the epidemic, when the number of new cases per day is still increasing. this is because, for most infectious diseases, any deaths typically occur when the disease is at its most severe state, whereas those who survive the disease will then experience a gradual decline in symptoms as their immune system succeeds in halting and reversing the progress of the infection.    for an illustrative example, let is consider a hypothetical disease with a theoretical 1  long-term average cfr -- that is to say, exactly 1  of all  recognizably  infected patients will die of the disease. let is further assume that this disease typically takes two days to progress from the initial onset of recognizable symptoms to the state of maximum severity, which is when most of the deaths occur. after this, assuming that the patient survives, the symptoms gradually decline over the following three days. as remission is possible  but rare , doctors will generally consider a patient recovered only after showing no symptoms for at least two days. thus, a typical case would progress as follows:    onset of symptoms - increasing symptoms  2 days  - peak severity - declining symptoms  3 days  - no symptoms - observation  2 days  - officially recovered  total time: approx. 7 days from onset    or, for the 1  of patients for whom the disease is fatal:    onset of symptoms - increasing symptoms  2 days  - death  total time: approx. 2 days from onset    now, let is assume that, during the early period of an epidemic when the infection is still spreading exponentially, the number of new cases increases by a factor of 10 every three days. thus, during this period, the number of new cases, recoveries and deaths per day might grow approximately as follows  assuming for the sake of the example that exactly 1 , rounded down, of the patients diagnosed on each day will die two days later :     cases   recovered   deaths        day   new   total   new   total   new   total   nd / ni   nd/ nd nr    ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --------- ------------   1   1   1   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    2   2   3   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    3   5   8   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    4   10   18   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    5   20   38   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    6   50   88   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    7   100   188   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    8   200   388   1   1   0   0   0.00    0.0     9   500   888   2   3   1   1   0.11    25.0     10   1000   1888   5   8   2   3   0.16    27.3     11   2000   3888   10   18   5   8   0.21    30.8     12   5000   8888   20   38   10   18   0.20    32.1      as you can see from the table above, naively calculating the case fatality rate as  total number of deaths  /  total number of cases  during this exponential growth period does underestimate the true long-term cfr by a factor of  in this case  about 5 due to the two-day lag time between infection and death. on the other hand, using your formula of  total deaths  /  total deaths   recovered  would overestimate the true cfr by a factor of about 30   meanwhile, let is assume that, after the first 12 days, the growth of the epidemic saturates at 10,000 new cases per day. now the total numbers will look like this:     cases   recovered   deaths        day   new   total   new   total   new   total   nd / ni   nd/ nd nr    ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --------- ------------   13   10000   18888   50   88   20   38   0.20    30.2     14   10000   28888   99   187   50   88   0.30    32.0     15   10000   38888   198   385   100   188   0.48    32.8     16   10000   48888   495   880   100   288   0.59    24.7     17   10000   58888   990   1870   100   388   0.66    17.2     18   10000   68888   1980   3850   100   488   0.71    11.2     19   10000   78888   4950   8800   100   588   0.74    6.3     20   10000   88888   9900   18700   100   688   0.77    3.5     21   10000   98888   9900   28600   100   788   0.80    2.7      as you can see, the two measures of mortality rate do eventually start converging as the growth of the epidemic slows down. in fact, in the long run, as the majority of patients either recover or die, they do both end up converging to the  true  long-term case fatality rate of 1 . but by then, the epidemic will be basically over.  there are various ways to obtain a more accurate estimate of the long-term fatality rate even during the early exponential growth phase of an epidemic. one such method would be to look at the outcomes of a single cohort of patients diagnosed at the same time. for our hypothetical example epidemic, looking e.g. at just the 1000 patients diagnosed on day 10, we could get an accurate estimate of the cfr by day 12 simply by dividing the 10 deaths within that cohort by the total number of patients in the cohort. furthermore, observing multiple cohorts would give us a pretty good idea of how long after diagnosis we would need to wait before the estimated case fatality rate for each cohort gets close to its final true value.  unfortunately carrying out this kind of cohort analysis for 2019-ncov would require more detailed information than the tracker you have linked to provides. even the time series spreadsheet the tracker links to does not directly provide such detailed cohort data, although it might be possible to obtain better estimates from it by making some more or less reasonable assumptions about the typical progress of the disease.    addendum: a few preliminary cohort studies of the kind i describe above do appear to have already been published for 2019-ncov.  in particular,  a novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern  by wang et al. and  clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in wuhan, china  by huang et al., both published on january 24 in the lancet, note that, out of the first 41 patients diagnosed with 2019-ncov before jan 2, 2020 in wuhan, six had died  and 28 had been discharged, leaving seven hospitalized  by jan 22, giving a case fatality rate of 14.6  in this cohort.  however, they do advise treating this figure with due caution, noting a number of reasons  besides just the small number of cases examined  why it may not fully reflect the eventual long-term cfr:     however, both of these  cfr  estimates  of 14.6  from the 41 patient cohort and of 2.9  from all 835 cases confirmed at the time of writing  should be treated with great caution because not all patients have concluded their illness  ie, recovered or died  and the true number of infections and full disease spectrum are unknown. importantly, in emerging viral infection outbreaks the case-fatality ratio is often overestimated in the early stages because case detection is highly biased towards the more severe cases. as further data on the spectrum of mild or asymptomatic infection becomes available, one case of which was documented by chan and colleagues, the case-fatality ratio is likely to decrease.    there is also a later paper titled  epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in wuhan, china: a descriptive study  by chen et al., published on jan 30, that examines a cohort of 99 patients diagnosed between jan 1 to jan 20 and reports a cfr of 11  within this cohort. however, the study only followed these patients up to jan 25, by which time more than half of them  57 out of 99  still remained hospitalized. 	
how does unemployment insurance work  answer    the  stimulus plan  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/us/politics/whats- in-coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html  includes a significant expansion of unemployment benefits that would extend jobless insurance by 13 weeks. the program is aimed to help freelancers, part-time workers, furloughed employees and gig workers, such as uber drivers, as well as full-time employees who have lost their jobs. states have set their own rules for eligibility and benefits, which are generally calculated as a percentage of your income over the past year, up to a certain maximum. some states are more generous than others, but unemployment typically replaces about 45 percent of your lost income. under the plan, eligible workers would get an extra  600 per week on top of their state benefit. one important note: you might not have to lose your job to qualify. if you are quarantined or have been furloughed -- and you are not being paid but expect to return to your job eventually -- you may be able to get unemployment benefits.	
is there a particular blood group more prone to covid-19  answer there may be a chance some blood types have a higher risk of getting a serious dose of covid-19 than others, a small early study suggests.  researchers assessed 2,173 coronavirus hospital patients in shenzhen and wuhan in china, where the outbreak originated.  they found patients with a blood group types were more likely to have been hospitalised than average, while those with an o blood group type were less likely.  in the local population, 32  had a type a blood group, compared with 38  of those in hospital. meanwhile, 34  of residents had type 0 blood, compared with 26  in hospital.  however, this study has not yet been peer reviewed and only covered a small area, so these links may be coincidental. everyone should be doing all they can to avoid catching the virus and passing it on to others, regardless of their blood type.	
how are covid-19 and influenza viruses similar  answer firstly, covid-19 and influenza viruses have a similar disease presentation. that is, they both cause respiratory disease, which presents as a wide range of illness from asymptomatic or mild through to severe disease and death.secondly, both viruses are transmitted by contact, droplets and fomites. as a result, the same public health measures, such as hand hygiene and good respiratory etiquette  coughing into your elbow or into a tissue and immediately disposing of the tissue , are important actions all can take to prevent infection.	
i did asked before , but apparently providing a link to a science report of harmless for humans  both skin and eyes  far-uv light was not enough to make people understand the significance of the solution to the raging covid-19. so this link  please read a bit of it : http://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-018-21058-w says that the uv light of wavelength 222 nanometers  the photons bounces off the skin and the eyes  is absolutely harmless and do not make neither skin cancer or cataract. so this light is deadly for viruses and is not commercially available to anyone like ordinary humans  perhaps only some labs got it but sure cannot by on amazon or ebay or so . so if you wish to protect people you ideally need something to kill the virus in mid-air exactly as this lamp does. cite:  by contrast, we have previously shown that far-uvc light  207-222 nm  efficiently inactivates bacteria without harm to exposed mammalian skin.  - this line is at the beginning of the link above. so my idea is to help ordinary people that have some diy experience to make a lamp and disinfect the clothes and themself like skin and face and face mask and so. so a guy good in chemistry of similar that ca help with his knowledge and experience to help the people and get rid of the virus. the research i did in the internet says that the uv has ability to kill virus in 10 seconds. so having a lamp emitting harmless 222nm uv light instead the cancer deadly 254nm uv germicidal lamps will be able to protect from the diseases. the question is how to make it.  so i suppose you can type a good way to do it and save the half of the western world population  the old people like your grandma and grandpa     nobody needs glass  or quartz  blowing of a lamp. neither skills beyond the ordinary diy - well it might be a need of experienced diy-er.   answer uvc is very harmful to people and requires specialist equipment to create and use safely  you are not going to be able to create or use lamps that emit 222nm light without specialist equipment, and even if you could it would almost certainly not be safe.  far uv lamps are widely commercially available for germicidal applications and these usually use mercury vapour fluorescent discharge tubes with no phosphors so have a strong emission around 250nm from a line in the mercury emission spectrum. they are very dangerous to people and have caused significant harm when used accidentally  see this video from bigclive describing what happens when they are used accidentally instead of the much less harmful  black light  tubes commonly used for discos and events .   another important fact to bear in mind is that uvc lamps of this type have to use specialist glass in manufacture because common types of glass strongly absorb uvc wavelengths. so, while they are readily available, they are not easy for an amateur to make.  you report a claim from a nature paper than a tightly controlled uvc light of around 222nm wavelength is not harmful to people. i would be far more cautious as the nature paper did not do extensive safety studies on the actual effect on people and given what we know about wavelengths not much longer, the claim would need some extensive validation.  but you have bigger problems than this in your pursuit of an easy-to-make solution accessible to amateurs. first, you cannot easily get around the problem of the glass used absorbing the wavelengths you want to see: you will need specialist material. second, the actual excimer lamps as used in the nature paper are sophisticated devices that cannot easily be made by non-specialists  they are far more complex than the relatively conventional discharge tubes used in commercial uv lamps which are essentially the same as conventional visible fluorescent lamps apart from the need for specialist glass . apart from anything else the lamps have a strong emission at around 258nm, exactly the wavelength known to be very dangerous to people from simple uvc mercury vapour lamps. the nature paper reported using specialist narrow band filters to eliminate those wavelengths. these are unlikely to be easy to obtain. third, creating the excimer lamps is a sophisticated process requiring specialist pulsed electronic drivers to get the lamp to work  most likely, according to this reference in the nature paper, you need to fine tune the gas mixture and the pressure and the driving electronics for the lamp which is far more complex than a simple driver for a fluorescent tube .  and, as for  nobody needs glass  or quartz  blowing of a lamp , i am afraid you are delusional. you need specialist glass to let the right wavelengths through and specialist filters to kill the harmful wavelengths. this is not  simple diy .  you have seen an interesting paper in nature and assumed it is easy for someone to make in their shed. this is not true. specialist skills are required and attempting anything without those skills is likely highly dangerous  and that is ignoring the issues of handling the chemicals and vacuum technology needed to create the lamp: both are dangerous .   and, perhaps more importantly, the best way to avoid contamination of others with covid-19 is to wash your hands. there are no easy technological silver bullets here, though, perhaps, professional engineers and chemists can build something safe based on the nature observation in the future. 	
what can i do to protect myself and prevent the spread of disease  answer you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:   1: regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.   2: maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.   3: avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.   4: make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately. why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.   5: stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority. why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.   6: keep up to date on the latest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 is spreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older person or have diabetes, heart or lung disease. why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas.	
so far the western nations i am aware of seem to be trending towards the chinese/south korean plan for coronavirus containment:   lockdown the entire country until the number of new cases is manageable introduce localized quarantines and contact tracing to minimize the number of new infections wait for the vaccine or cure   however point  3 is risky, as no one is sure if a vaccine can be at all created or if an effective enough cure can be developed. therefore it might be tempting for some countries to go for an alternative approach in an attempt to balance the risks. have any countries officially  or at least indirectly  announced such a plan  some alternative solutions i am aware of:    do nothing   isolating the elderly, but no general quarantine chickenpox style variolation, similar to the pox parties of the past maintaining a full lockdown from the world without having the virus locally - 22 countries report this so far   i am aware that the situation is currently evolving around the world, so i expect new answers to trickle in within the next months.   answer if depends quite a bit what you mean by  plans other than quarantine . there are of course efforts to test anti-virals and develop a vaccine. but the amount antivirals available might not suffice in the short run, even if they prove  safe and  effective.  generally speaking however    given the lack of testing in europe and the us, the only way to keep the sick and healthy apart is to keep everyone apart. and that produces a recession.   and the alternative for that would be to test everyone. it is been done at small scale  you will be amused where  in italy, in the very first region hit, i.e. in the town of vo. but the trouble is that testing capacity does not quite scale to the  test everyone in the country  presently... except maybe in iceland, the only country i know of that that is doing random testing on a serious scale  relative to the country is size   but it is worth noting that there is convergence between random testing and the chunk of the population that gets tested in iceland:    iceland has tested a far greater proportion of its population than anywhere else on earth, including south korea -- another country touted for its effective response to the pandemic.    but what makes iceland unique is that test samples are not only taken from  high risk  individuals who have exhibited symptoms, came into contact with known carriers, or returned from countries such as china and italy, they are also offered to thousands of ordinary members of its general population, who are nonsymptomatic.   on should not discount the level of quarantines imposed in iceland either though:    across this remote and rugged island nation of a little more than 364,000, as of friday morning there were almost 10,000 men, women and children -- equivalent to 9 million americans -- under this form of state-enforced lock and key.   so it is more like  more of everything  being done over there rather than  alternative plans .    if by plans you mean plans to relax the lockdowns at some point, every country is probably thinking/considering when they can do that. economists have been spurred into providing answers to hard-choice questions that need to balance economic damage/recession with the lives saved  in the short run . see e.g.    managing economic lockdowns in an epidemic , or in more depth  the macroeconomics of epidemics   eichenbaum et al.   also covered in  the latter half of a  nyt article.   alas the experience of hong kong last week shows that lockdowns may  need to  return in some cases/areas...    i somehow missed the  odd man out , in this case, bolsonaro:    in a televised address last week, he repeated a now well-worn phrase.  it is just a little flu or the sniffles,  he said, blaming the media once again for the hysteria and panic over covid-19.    a few days later, he clearly demonstrated his prioritisation of the economy over isolation measures favoured by the rest of the world.     people are going to die, i am sorry,  he said.  but we can not stop a car factory because there are traffic accidents.      jair bolsonaro is alone right now,  says brian winter, editor-in-chief of the publication americas quarterly.  no other major world leader is denying the severity of this to the extent  ...     a few days ago, a video was shared by jair bolsonaro is son, flavio - a politician himself.    the video is message, which claimed to come from the brazilian government, was that  brazil can not stop   in portuguese,  obrasilnaopodeparar . people need to keep working to keep the country safe and the economy growing.    so much so, in fact, that a federal judge on saturday banned the government from campaigning against isolation measures. government posts on social media using the hashtag were hastily removed.     he is clearly laying the foundation of being able to say six months to a year from now that he did not agree with tough distancing measures, with the lockdown,  says oliver stuenkel, associate professor of international relations at the getulio vargas foundation in sao paulo.   that kind of internal power struggle has happened to some extent in pakistan too, although the military apparently gained the upper hand and managed to impose some level of lockdowns despite opposition from some politicians and clerics. and khan  like bolsonaro  also seems to hedge his bets:    prime minister imran khan, however, has appeared out of step with local provincial governments. he had previously said a  lockdown  would not be sustainable in pakistan, as it would cause too much harm to those on low incomes.    after provincial governments went ahead and introduced measures tantamount to a  lockdown  anyway, mr khan attempted to explain he only opposed what he described as a  curfew,  while also outlining some measures to protect the poorest in society, who are dependent on daily wages to feed their families. unlike other muslim countries, his government has not ordered an end to congregational prayers on fridays.  	
is covid-19 the same as sars  answer no. the virus that causes covid-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars  in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different. sars was more deadly but much less infectious than covid-19. there have been no outbreaks of sars anywhere in the world since 2003.	
how often do i need to wash it  answer griffin says to think of a mask as like underwear: it needs to be washed after each use.  you do not take this dirty mask off, put it in your purse and then stick it back on your face,  he says.  it is something that once you put on, is potentially either touching your coughs, sneezes or the spray of your speech, or protecting you from the coughs, spray, speech of other people. and now it is dirty. it needs to basically be either discarded or washed.  so if you are wearing a cloth mask, put it into the laundry basket immediately. if it is disposable, throw it away. it is a big no-no to pull the mask down to eat a snack, then pull it back up: you have just gotten whatever dirty stuff is on the mask on your hands and into your mouth.	
according to a ny post article, parks in new york have become so overcrowded during this covid-19 outbreak  supposedly because residents can not find anywhere else to go, e.g. restaurants are closed , so much so that some use cemeteries as parks in the hope of finding a less crowded spot. how accurate are these journalistic impressions  is there data on the increase in overcrowding in ny parks during this outbreak, and if so, have there been any public health estimates on the danger that these park crowds may cause    i see that cuomo was incensed by the crowded parks, but that was more than a week ago. he did close playgrounds, in the meantime.   to those who think this can not be but bs  per comments below , governor cuomo and mayor de blasio have disagreed often enough, e.g. the atlantic relates their disagreement on school closures:    de blasio angered new york parents and some of his own allies by resisting for days a decision to close schools, acting only following pressure from cuomo and after a near-revolt by advisers and top public-health officials.  he is both a bad decision maker and not good at communicating about it,  said an elected new york democrat and former ally of the mayor is, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to preserve a working relationship with the de blasio administration.   so i would not be surprised they disagreed about parks too. the question whether the parks are crowded obviously has a public-health and thus a political dimension too nowadays  so i disagree with those who think this is off topic.   and if you need anther source, the march 23 story was covered by bloomberg too, with a march 20 image:      tired of being cooped up at home, hordes of new yorkers headed to central park and other open spaces in the city over the weekend -- and that is making governor andrew cuomo very irritated.     it is insensitive, it is arrogant, it is self-destructive, it is disrespectful to other people, and it has to stop, and it has to stop now,  he said.  this is not a joke, and i am not kidding.     calling the crowds  wholly inappropriate  amid a statewide stay-home order, he is now asking the city to develop a plan that he can approve monday to correct that.     we talk about social distancing,  he said.  i was in these parks, and you would not know that anything was going on.    i do not know how  un reliable  the gothamist  is, but they posted these images supposedly from march 27:     of course, a lot can change in a couple of weeks in people is attitudes, even if the parks are still open. and likewise some photos may be unrepresentative. the question is: did any behavioral change happen that made the closures unnecessary, or was cuomo ranting like a madman and there was no problem to begin with    answer i do not know about nyc, i live in nc. since our state and county governments began issuing stay at home orders, i have noticed an incredible number of people gathered in our parks - far more than what i would see on a typical day.  the entrances to our state parks were closed, but access to lakes is still available for boats. it has not been uncommon to drive by a lake access point and see hundreds of people tightly gathered by the loading ramps. trail-heads which on a great day would have 1 or 2 cars parked now have as many as 20 or 30. and i have never seen church parking lots so packed.  so, if nyc is anything like where i live, it would not be at all surprising to find community parks jammed.  from what we hear on a daily basis, we need to stay home except for essential requirements. we need to stay at least 6 feet from anyone not in our immediate family  as in those living under the same roof . and even more recently, we need to be wearing masks when out in public. we should not be hanging out with groups of more than 10 people  and that is not so much for viral safety, that is for social sanity . and like any virus, it makes no difference if it is passed indoors or out. the chance of infection remains the same either way. 	
i assumed a virus to be something with a very specific geometry, similar to a crystal, but more complex.  in an answer to  what is the size  diameter  of the sars-cov-2 virus  some sars-cov-2 virus particles are shown.  it looks like they do not have the same geometry.  they may be soft and influenced by external forces, but they could also be of different, but similar shape. also, they could simply be defective in some way.  i assume a structure of the size of a virus is not rigid. assuming no external forces, would multiple exemplars of the same kind of virus have the same shape  can a virus have a different molecular arrangement, but be equivalent for biological purposes   answer some parts of viruses are consistently shaped, in particular anything that is made of multiple copies of a protein sticking together. there are methods to determine the structures of these regular components to high precision, like single particle analysis  eg. zika  and x-ray crystallography  bacteriophage hk97 . other parts of the virus are less consistent, either because they are flexible or because they are produced slightly differently each time. the nucleic acid core is often arranged semi-randomly, and the lipid envelope of many viruses can vary greatly, dependent on the process by which parts of the host cell is membrane is pinched off to create new viral particles. here is an example of pretty extreme variability of influenza particles, based on what cell type they have infected. virus particles with different shapes can be just as infectious, but if they are too large the number of new viruses produced by an infected cell may be too low. 	
what should i do if i feel sick  answer if you have been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. they should give you advice on how to get tested and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. the centers for disease control and prevention says that if you are sick or think you are sick, but only mildly ill, you should  isolate yourself  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/steps-when- sick.html , and you should not leave your house except to go to the doctor.	
if infected with coronavirus, can you survive it and recover  answer absolutely. the vast majority of people with coronavirus survive.   the director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases has estimated the death rate is  about 2 . 	
what is cdc doing about covid-19  answer cdc is working with other federal partners in a whole-of-government response. this is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation and cdc will continue to provide updated information as it becomes available. cdc works 24/7 to protect people is health. more information about cdc is response to covid-19 is available online.	
is there a model for setting up an isolation ward and types and products and health requirements  answer a model for setting up an isolation ward is currently under development. ppe specifications for healthcare workers caring for ncov patients can be found in the disease commodity package at: http://www.who.int/publications-detail/disease-commodity-package---novel-coronavirus- ncov 	
i am researching options strategies and i started paper trading a  spy options. here is my strategy:  set up a strangle 5  above and below the market price expiring a month from the day of trade. 12 contracts total.   on feb 20th, i looked at the cost of that setup:  actual price of the stock   spy     336.40 sell a call 5  above the market  spy200320c00355000     0.13 x 100 x 12      156.00 sell a put 5  below the market  spy200320p00319000     1.42 x 100 x 12      1,704.00 so on feb 20th, i would have received  1,860.00 for selling those options.   a month later, the idea is that one of those options would be worthless and the other one cheaper than the price paid  of course this was not the case with the current market/covid-19   on mar 20th, i would have to pay back  current price of the stock   spy     244.41 spy200320c00355000 is now worth  0.01    12 spy200320p00319000 is now worth  77.10    92,520.00   leaving me with a total of   -90,660.00  although it is clear that this strategy backfired given the current situation, i would like to understand if my calculations are right.   more specifically, do i have to consider the fact that for every point that an index option goes beyond the strike, i will have to pay/earn  100  if this is the case, i would have to pay an additional 9,200 per contract    , or  110,400  since starting, i learned that an iron condor is much more secure than a strangle and i am planning to paper trade that strategy for a while.  answer i think there is a few things you may be misunderstanding about selling a strangle.   first:     a month later, the idea is that one of those options would be worthless and the other one cheaper than the price paid  of course this was not the case with the current market/covid-19    the ideal scenario behind selling a strangle is that both options expire otm, as they were otm when you sold them to begin with  in your example, on february 20th . this would result in you keeping all of the premium you initially received, the  1860.00  not including commissions associated w/ selling these options, which can vary depending on your account, but we will assume no commissions for the sake of the theoretical scenario .   second part:     more specifically, do i have to consider the fact that for every point that an index option goes beyond the strike, i will have to pay/earn  100  if this is the case, i would have to pay an additional 9,200 per contract    , or  110,400   one, spy is not an index and if you wanted to sell options on an index, you could simply sell them on  spx. two, i think you are neglecting the fact that movements in the underlying are not the only factor that affects the value of an option, you also have time, and volatility  in a simplified sense  that affect the value of the option you sold. so you can not simply just use this rule of thumb without taking these into account, unless you are saying you are only concerned with what the price the option is on the day of expiration. in this scenario, then yes you would be only concerned with the difference between the underlying, and the strike price of your option.   so regarding the 319 put that was sold at  1.42 a contract, then on the day of expiration  march 20th  this put would be worth  74.59 a contract, and in your example, this could either get exercised against you  if you let it  and in that case, you would have to buy 100   12   1200 shares of spy at  319.00 which would cost:    319.00   1200    382,800 and then your position is actually currently worth  244.41   1200    293,292 so your loss would be:     293,292 - 382,800     1860    -87,648  recall the  1860 in premium you received initially   or more commonly, you would have to buy back the option to close out the contract  since you sold to open the contract , which would cost:  74.59   100   12    89,508. note that the call would expire otm  worthless  and you do not have to buy it back. but, recall that you initially received  1,860.00 in premium when you sold these two contracts, so your total loss is:  87,648.  	
am i at risk if i touch someone who died of covid-19 after they have passed away  answer covid-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads. the virus that causes covid-19 is thought to mainly spread from close contact  i.e., within about 6 feet  with a person who is currently sick with covid-19. the virus likely spreads primarily through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, similar to how influenza and other respiratory infections spread. these droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. this type of spread is not a concern after death. it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of covid-19. older people and people of all ages with severe underlying health conditions are at higher risk of developing serious covid-19 illness. there may be less of a chance of the virus spreading from certain types of touching, such as holding the hand or hugging after the body has been prepared for viewing. other activities, such as kissing, washing, and shrouding should be avoided before, during, and after the body has been prepared, if possible. if washing the body or shrouding are important religious or cultural practices, families are encouraged to work with their community is cultural and religious leaders and funeral home staff on how to reduce their exposure as much as possible. at a minimum, people conducting these activities should wear disposable gloves. if splashing of fluids is expected, additional personal protective equipment  ppe  may be required  such as disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and n-95 respirator . cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time . products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon are expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. after removal of ppe, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol if soap and water are not available. soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled.	
my cat  approximately 16 years old, short hair, no specific breed, indoor cat  has been vomiting pretty much every day  sometimes multiple times  for almost a month.  she had a scare with her kidneys about 2 years ago  elevated results of urea and creatine  and has had blood tests regularly since but her levels fell and have been good ever since.  her brother passed away a few years ago from stomach cancer, and he showed similar symptoms in the beginning but when we have taken her to the vets they have done x-ray and ultrasound and other than a slight thickening of the stomach lining could not see any lumps or anything out of the ordinary. she has also had blood tests and everything looks fine, very good kidney results, no sign of liver issues, no sign of diabetes.  she is been on antacids and laxatives from the vet  as much as we can get in her, she is not good with meds and gets very distressed  but they do not seem to be having any effect. when she is been in to the vets they sometimes give her an anti-nausea injection which stops her being ill for a few days and then it starts up again. she is also had antibiotics, dewormer, b12 and a steroid injection at various times. any improvement is only temporary for a few days and then she starts vomiting again.  she is a fussy eater and she gets dry food  purina one, various flavours , tuna and white fish. also occasionally ham. she will not eat much else. she gets sick mostly in the morning and we suspected bilious vomiting syndrome, but she already has food down through the day and gets other regular food throughout the day too, including late at night and that has not improved anything.  most days she might be sick once  and it tends to be thick and dark brown, occasionally with food in or clumps of hair but mostly liquid  but sometimes it is two or three times. she is otherwise eating fine, drinking and urinating a normal amount and pooing regularly  not sure the laxative is making any difference .  the vets seem to be a bit stumped and just keep telling us to give her the laxatives / antacid but there is obviously something else going on.  the only major change recently is that we were giving her a glycosamine and mineral supplement for arthritis which we were mixing with milk to get her to take it as it was the only way to guarantee she would take it all. we ran out of the first course a couple of weeks before she started getting sick and did not get any more before she got ill, so it is been about six weeks since she had the supplement or any milk.  we are really worried but do not know what else to do. everything is also complicated by the fact we are in the uk and the country is on lockdown because of coronavirus so while the vet is still open it is not easy to get an appointment.  we are waiting on a stronger antacid from the vets and we are going to try to give her exclusively white fish for a few days to see if diet is contributing  but it is the same diet she is been on for years .  any ideas what it could be or what we could try next  the fact she seems to be in good health  particularly for her age  is what is confusing us as all the things we have seen that fit have a list of other symptoms that she just has not got.  answer never give your cat milk cats and all other adult mamals are unable to digest lactose it makes them and many of us ill.  the negative effect of giving milk is most likely stronger than the positive effect of glycosamine and the mineral suplement.  as elmy say in her answer if the vomit is dark it might be internal bleeding so you will need to take your cat to the vet for diagnosing and treatment of this.  giving white fish is a good idea and you can use the juice from the white fish and mix glycosamine and mineral suplement into this,to get the juice out of the white fish you need to do as follows.  use one of your smallest pots add the white fish it is best if it have been frozen add a couple of spoons of water and slowly heat until the water boils,use a fork to split up the fish so it gets heated evenly use little heat you need to keep the water/juice.  you can use a strainer to remove the juice or you can use the fish and juice as it is,cool it down and mix in the glycosamine and minerals hopefully your cat will eat it.  as other mention in the comments giving only white fish over time is not good,and it will lead to lack of essensial nutrients so you need to go back to normal food after two days even if your cat manages to keep the food down. 	
my flight is from detroit to haneda airport to manila. do i need to get a transit visa for japan, because my layover at haneda is 19 hours  i am a citizen of the philippines.  answer yes, you can transit without a visa at haneda airport, if your connection time between flights is less than 72 hours.  if you have not been to any of the areas affected by covid-19 then you may also be able to get a shore pass so that you can enter japan and stay landside during your layover.  timatic, the database which airlines use to verify passenger travel documents, states in part:    visa required, except for passengers transiting through tokyo   hnd  or osaka  kix  with a confirmed onward ticket for a  flight to a third country within 72 hours. they must stay in  the international transit area of the airport and have  documents required for the next destination.     visa required, except for passengers with a passport and a  confirmed onward ticket to a third country within 72 hours can  obtain a shore pass on arrival if there are no connecting  flights on the same calendar day. they must:      have documents required for the next destination  and  have proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay  and   arrive at and depart from an airport or seaport located  within the same group below.  group a:  airports: narita  nrt , haneda  hnd , nagoya  ngo , niigata   kij , komatsu  kmq  and yokota  oko .  seaports: tokyo, yokohama, niigata and nagoya.      covid-19 entry restrictions omitted as these change frequently. at this time i do not recommend trying to get a shore pass as people entering japan from the usa are being asked to self-quarantine for 14 days.  	
what is closed  answer physical distancing is the reason the federal government has closed pubs, indoor sporting venues and churches across australia. the situation with schools varies state by state. queensland, south australia, western australia, tasmania and northern territory will keep schools open for the children of essential workers but will began to implement pupil-free days in the coming weeks. victoria and act schools are already on break. nsw schools remain open but students are encouraged to stay at home. the prime minister has said all  non-essential  travel within australia should be cancelled. western australia and south australia have closed their borders - any arrivals after tuesday afternoon, march 24, will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. the goal of these social distancing measures is to avoid a worst-case scenario that would see four million australians contract covid-19 in a single wave. slowing the spread may prevent health services from being overwhelmed by coronavirus cases. from midnight on wednesday, march 25, these activities and businesses will no longer be allowed to continue: amusement parks and arcadesindoor and outdoor play centrescommunity and recreation centres, health clubs, fitness centres, yoga, barre, spin facilities, saunas, wellness centrespublic swimming poolsgalleries, museums, national institutions, historic sites, libraries, community centresauction housesreal estate auctions and open house inspectionsin-store beauty therapy, tanning, waxing, nail salons and tattoo parlours, spa and massage parlours  excluding allied-health-related services, like physiotherapy food courts within shopping centres will only be able to sell takeaway. shopping centres themselves will remain openhairdressers and barber shops can continue, but a customer must not be on the premises longer than one hourpersonal training and boot camps are limited to a maximum of 10 peopleweddings can continue, but only with the couple, the celebrant, and witnesses totalling a maximum of five peoplefunerals are limited to a maximum of 10 peopleoutdoor and indoor food markets will be addressed by individual states and territories	
most countries seem to allow dog walking during anti-covid-19 measures preventing the spread of the coronavirus. however, there is at least south africa where even dog walking is disallowed. the extent to which it is disallowed is a bit unclear, but the wording from the news suggest that dog owners are supposed to not get out of their houses unless they  really want to :    dog lovers in south africa have been ordered not to take their beloved pets for a walk for three weeks, police minister bheki cele said at a news conference.     we had discussions and agreed that there shall be no walking of dogs,  cele said.  if you really want to walk your dog, do it around your house - it ends there.      source    currently there is only south africa with a limitation like this, but nothing stops other countries from applying the same restrictions if the spread of covid-19 can not be stopped.  how are owners supposed to take care of their dog is toilet needs if dog walking is disallowed  is there some sensible way, or are they supposed to wait for dogs to make a mess and then clean up   i would probably rely on the  really want to  case myself, but it seems to be considered an exception by those imposing the restriction.   answer dogs - like humans - usually choose a certain place as their  bathroom  to do their business there. as long as the poop does not pile up without ever disappearing, they will stick to this bathroom.  if your dog is toilet trained, it learned that the bathroom is somewhere outside and never in the house. if you really lock it up inside there are 2 consequences:   your dog will hold its pee and poop as long as possible, because it cannot go to the bathroom. that is very uncomfortable and can have negative effects on the health. sooner or later, your dog has to make a mess, every single day. it will learn that the toilet is now inside the house and it will be extremely hard to stop this behavior again if the covid-19 crisis is over.   so my best advice is: go outside for your dogs toiletry needs, no matter what your government says.  the quote implies that your government is very aware that it is impossible to lock dogs inside the house.     if you really want to walk your dog, do it around your house - it ends there.    if you do not have a yard where your dog can do its business, you have a reason to  really want to walk your dog . but please stick to the streets / walkways closest to your home and do not wander through half the city into a crouded dog park. if one round around the house is not enough for your dog, walk 2 or 3 rounds around the house, but do stay close to the house. 	
will families who receive food stamps be eligible for the stimulus check  answer yes, families who receive food stamps are eligible to receive a stimuluscheck  the  2 trillion stimulus plan includes  one-time payments of 1,200  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/03/26/coronavirus-americans-start-getting-stimulus-checks-three-weeks/5078658002/  per adult and 500 per child,  367 billion for small businesses,  500 billion for loans tolarger industries,  100 billion for hospitals and the health care system, and 600 more per week in unemployment benefits for those out of work.here is  how you cancalculate  http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/2020/03/26/find-out-how-much-your-stimulus-check/2917379001/  the amount of stimulus money yourhousehold can expect.	
the  daily  ny times podcast for 3/12/20 described two effective management schemes for handling the epidemic. briefly:  chinese: check everyone is temperature frequently on a massive scale. track individuals with qr codes. use a flow chart procedure to confirm or eliminate a covid hypothesis, and put affected individuals in government quarantine as needed, separating confirmed cases within a family so as to minimize contagion within families.  the flow chart procedure was describe as follows: screen for body temperature and cough. eliminate bacterial infection and allergy as possible. cat scan for pneumonia.  also an npr report described an online support group led by a social worker that included quarantine graduates who gave descriptions of quarantine living conditions, including food, and gave advice about what to take along to quarantine. these services apparently helped people cope positively with fears of quarantine.  south korean: extensive testing and thorough, meticulous exposure tracing.  my question is, would it be possible to implement one or both of these in the united states  or europe    answer  from the helicopter  there is now a more general claim  e.g. in the following mckinsey slide  that western countries are trying to emulate china and/or south korea is response:    the devil might be in the details, of course. getting to the details might be too involved/broad in a question like this, not specific to a pair of countries. there is for example a china-us comparison in a recent bi article, too long to quote here in its entirety, of course. but some things that were probably not done in the west was a complete shutdown of travel, e.g.     these draconian measures seem to have worked to bring down the cases in a very short period of time in china,  yanzhong huang, senior fellow for global health at the council on foreign relations, told business insider.  although there is a cost to the economy, to society, not to mention also the second-order problems, like access to health care for people without the coronavirus. the question is whether the united states is willing to pay such a high price.   ...  huang says he cannot imagine an america where many of these measures are implemented.  ...     during the height of the outbreak, trains did not stop at the disease is epicenter, wuhan.  ...   cutting off transportation was considered on the top three measures to contain the spread of the virus,  huang told business insider.  but it would hard to imagine the complete shutdown of an american city due to government order.    and regarding tracking of people is movement     it would be a big change right for the us people to get accustomed to,  said huang,  if the government wants to use this high tech means, like using the cell phones to monitor the movement of the people.     huang added that even though there is little technological barrier to doing this, this kind of behavior is considered a form of digital authoritarianism, that involves uses privacy issues. huang would be hard-pressed to imagine the us government using this approach to containing the spread of the coronavirus.   china also apparently co-opted every   private   security guard in the effort to keep people in their homes:     in america, you have to stay at home, but there is no police,  said huang.  there is no one actively enforcing that rule, but in china, you have what are basically security guards on patrol of every residence to make sure they do not violate the government containment measures. that is a kind of approach i think can not be copied here in the united states.    likewise for suspending  non-essential  medical access:    in china, elective surgeries and other non-critical doctors visits were delayed, and many medical services were moved online.  ...  but the move has not been without negative consequences. one man with kidney disease in china jumped to his death, human rights watch reported. he could not get dialysis during the outbreak. another boy with cerebral palsy died after being left alone for six days while his father was quarantined in china.    a similar opinion was voiced in a time interview:     no other nation  western or otherwise  can or should seek to replicate china is actions,  thomas bollyky, the director of the global health program at the washington d.c.-based council on foreign relations, tells time via email.  the disregard for civil liberties and human rights that the government has demonstrated in its quarantine and censorship activities are inseparable from the policies and actions of the government that contributed to the outbreak in the first place.    other experts quoted earlier in a science  news  piece were also skeptical that the full extent of china is measures could be copied in the west:    the question now is whether the world can take lessons from china is apparent success--and whether the massive lockdowns and electronic surveillance measures imposed by an authoritarian government would work in other countries.  ...      this report poses difficult questions for all countries currently considering their response to covid-19,  says steven riley, an epidemiologist at imperial college london.  the joint mission was highly productive and gave a unique insight into china is efforts to stem the virus from spread within mainland china and globally,  adds lawrence gostin, a global health law scholar at georgetown university. but gostin warns against applying the model elsewhere.  i think there are very good reasons for countries to hesitate using these kinds of extreme measures.     there is also uncertainty about what the virus, dubbed sars-cov-2, will do in china after the country inevitably lifts some of its strictest control measures and restarts its economy. covid-19 cases may well increase again.   more recent cases from hong kong indicate that that fear of re-emergence may well be have been justified. so hong kong is back into lock down after it was largely lifted at the beginning of march.  similar expert opinion on restrictions timing:    epidemiologists say china is mammoth response had one glaring flaw: it started too late. in the initial weeks of the outbreak in december and january, wuhan authorities were slow to report cases of the mysterious infection, which delayed measures to contain it, says howard markel, a public-health researcher at the university of michigan in ann arbor.  the delay of china to act is probably responsible for this world event,  says markel.    a model simulation by lai shengjie and andrew tatem, emerging-disease researchers at the university of southampton, uk, shows that if china had implemented its control measures a week earlier, it could have prevented 67  of all cases there. implementing the measures 3 weeks earlier, from the beginning of january, would have cut the number of infections to 5  of the total.  ...     but between 16 and 30 january, a period that included the first 7 days of the lockdown, the number of people each infected individual gave the virus to dropped to 1.05, estimates adam kucharski, who models infectious-disease spread at the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine.  that was amazing,  he says.  ...      these extreme limitations on population movement have been quite successful,  says michael osterholm, an infectious-disease scientist at the university of minnesota in minneapolis.  ... however,  china is suppressing the virus, not eradicating it, says osterholm. the world will need to wait until about eight weeks after china resumes to some form of normality to know what it did or did not accomplish with its population-movement limitations, he says.    there is probably a fierce debate going on in china about when to relax the lockdown measures, says roy anderson, an epidemiologist at imperial college london. he suggests there could be a second wave of new infections when they are lifted.   so whether it is possible to  fully  emulate china is response  in the west  depends not only on the political framework, but also to which experts the  western  governments might be paying  most  attention to.  i realize this is a long answer already, but there was a recent interview with one of china is  own  cdc officials  whom seldom get interviewed in the west . some interesting points from there:    q: what mistakes are other countries making     a: the big mistake in the u.s. and europe, in my opinion, is that people are not wearing masks.  ...     q: people who tested positive in wuhan but only had mild disease were sent into isolation in large facilities and were not allowed to have visits from family. is this something other countries should consider     a: infected people must be isolated.  ...     q: spread in china has dwindled to a crawl, and the new confirmed cases are mainly people entering the country, correct     a: yes. at the moment, we do not have any local transmission, but the problem for china now is the imported cases. so many infected travelers are coming into china.     more recently  april 2  it has been reported by dw that germany is considering a voluntary phone app similar to the  mandatory   one s  used in china:    the most famous health app was developed by the tech giant alibaba in conjunction with the chinese authorities. other companies have also developed similar software, however. it was possible to work swiftly because the chinese state already has access regarding citizens  movements and programmers did not have to worry about data protection laws.  ...     there are many who hope that germany will soon be using such an app. the health ministry and researchers at the robert koch institute are developing similar software. the idea is to introduce a non-compulsory app that will not be able to detect who met whom and where but will be able to identify if a phone user was in close contact with another infected user.    the app will only really be able to function if 60 percent of the population uses it. in germany, it will not be as easy as in asia to reach such a percentage.    will germans cooperate     half of the respondents to a recent poll said they would not oppose an app to help warn users who had come into contact with someone infected with covid-19.    they do not link to the poll, but i guess in was a poll in germany given that this was an article on dw.  there is now a bbc video discussing chinese-inspired surveillance measures to combat the outbreak. this is of course somewhat subjective, but they only short-listed singapore, israel, iran, taiwan and russia as being closest to china-style surveillance measures used to combat the epidemic, like using cctv cameras and phone tracking. 	
how likely am i to catch covid-19  answer the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there. for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19.covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go. who publishes daily updates on the covid-19 situation worldwide. you can see these at http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/situation-reports/	
in search for any possible new treatments for covid-19, i am of the understanding that the sars-ncov-2 virus may suffer deterioration at high temperatures and high humidity, to perhaps weaken it sufficiently for your immune system to be able to handle it.   is there any research done on artificially inducing a  let is say  40degc fever, in a controlled manner, such that brain function will not be endangered    are there any fundamental biological functions that would prevent this possibility      possibly related questions:   should we induce fever to assist healing  how does fever physically work  paper shows 2 hours of high humidity and hot temperatures kills corona virus, does this stop the spread of the virus  what are the environmental conditions for 2019-ncov to survive      references:  1  http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/surgery/hyperthermia-fact-sheet  2  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/hyperthermia therapy  3  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermoregulation  4  janeways immunobiology  book   answer   in search for any possible new treatments for covid-19, i am of the understanding that the sars-ncov-2 virus may suffer deterioration at high temperatures and high humidity   if you are referring to the linked question, that is for virus in air on a dry surface. it is a test of how long the virus can survive outside of a host before it is desiccated and destroyed by the environment. it is not relevant to viral particles inside of an organism.    are there any fundamental biological functions that would prevent this possibility    there is little evidence that elevated body temperature has much effect on duration of infection with most common viral diseases. this is why antipyretic drugs are commonly recommended for people with viral infections.  	
what are the symptoms  answer what are the symptoms  most people get fever and cough, sometimes fatigue or shortness of breath, and recover after about two weeks. about 15  develop severe disease, including pneumonia, chinese scientists reported from 45,000 cases there. symptoms usually start slowly and often worsen as the illness goes on. in a report last week on the first 12 patients in the us, seven were hospitalized  most had underlying health problems and got worse during the second week of illness. in china, slightly more males have been diagnosed with covid-19 than females, which might be because roughly half of chinese men smoke but only 5  of females do, frieden said. children seem to get less sick -- a report on 10 in china found that fevers tended to be milder and they lacked clear signs of pneumonia.	
should people be wearing masks in public  answer the world health organisation is initial advice was that only people showing symptoms of infection or those caring for someone that has covid-19 need to wear a face mask. however, it has now updated its position to say it supports government initiatives that require or encourage the public wearing of masks. it has emphasised that surgical masks should be preserved for medical professionals. more...	
in forest management, a controlled burn is  used for hazard reduction  to  decrease the likelihood of serious hotter fires   w . in backfiring strategy,  firefighters attempt to halt the advance of a wildfire  ...  by burning up fuel in its path   h .  could the same strategy be used to fight the coronavirus   e.g. in my native country  norway , most hotels are now closed. if, for the sake of the argument, we assume that 1  humans become immune after having fallen sick to the virus and 2  people under 25 do not become seriously ill, what is the counterargument to inviting people in the age group 15-25 to mass isolate in said hotels for e.g. 1 month, for the purpose of kickstarting herd immunity    in the meantime, they would also be off the streets, presumably posing less of a risk to the more vulnerable population, and students would have a chance of colocating.   article discussing the matter  in norwegian  hypothesizing that a controlled burn could decrease the death toll in norway from 60.000 to 2.000 individuals.  answer computer simulations have been carried in london, uk, on a proposal to let the virus loose on the population as a whole and isolate those at risk.  but the models showed that there would be a huge death toll  over 2,000,000 for the usa  adopting this approach. younger people survive better with full medical support, but that does not mean they do not get very sick.  at least one 14 year old child has died, and half the icu beds in france are occupied by people in their 40s.   and this strategy would overwhelm the health system.    a new analysis by immunologists at imperial college london and the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine of the impact of the coronavirus in italy suggested that up to 30 percent of patients hospitalized with the virus would require intensive care treatment. those numbers, if repeated in the u.k., would quickly overwhelm britain is state-run national health service.    http://foreignpolicy.com/2020/03/17/britain-uk-coronavirus-response-johnson-drops-go-it-alone/ 	
how deadly is it  answer how deadly is it  that will not be known until large studies are done to test big groups of people to see how many have been infected and with or without symptoms. scientists have estimated the fatality rate from less than 1  to as high as 4  among cases diagnosed so far, depending on location. flu kills about 0.1  of those it infects, so the new virus seems about 10 times more lethal, the national institutes of health is dr. anthony fauci told congress last week. the death rate has been higher among people with other health problems -- more than 10  for those with heart disease, for example. in the us, 30 million have diabetes, more than 70 million are obese and nearly 80 million have high blood pressure.	
how likely are you to die from the virus   answer of the more than 586,000 people who have been infected worldwide, more than 26,000 have died. that is a death rate of about 4.6 . the who has previously estimated the rate at about 3.4 .  the death rate, however, varies widely based on age, health and geographic location. people who are older or who have preexisting conditions are at higher risk of severe illness.	
what is community spread  answer community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.	
i live in the united states. what should i do  answer while specific guidelines vary from city to city, the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  has advised that americans practice social distancing, and stay home, avoid mass gatherings and maintain 6 feet between themselves and others whenever possible. these efforts are intended to help  flatten the curve,  which means distributing the number of coronavirus cases over a longer period of time, to avoid overwhelming the health care system.  americans should continue to uphold proper flu season hygiene. wash your hands often, stay home if you are sick and cough or sneeze into your elbow rather than your hand.  if schools in your district have not yet closed, dr. william schaffner, medical director for the nonprofit national foundation for infectious diseases, suggested sitting down and outlining a plan for how your family might handle schools and businesses closing. does an older relative take prescription medication  now might be a good time to stockpile at least two weeks  worth.  call schools and ask if there are plans for remote schooling -- as some schools have done. figure out a childcare plan in the event schools close, and ask about remote working options. asking more questions now hopefully means asking fewer later.	
i am trying to analyse if the fatality rate from my country  a third world country  vary significantly from the world is fatality rate.  so i would basically have two samples, labeled  philippines  and  world excluding the philippines  then i can compute the fatality rate for the 2 groups.  does mcnemar is test apply here for me to check if fatality rate in the philippines is higher, or do you have any suggestions  thanks  answer it is not a case of paired nominal data. hence, mc nemar is test can not be applied to check whether there is a higher fatality rate in philippines  . the fatality rate is given for philippines and world   excluding philippines  . as defined, it is expressed as proportion. therefore, t-test/z-test shall be appropriate given that you meet other conditions such as sample-size. 	
i would like to know the japanese name or tag of a type of video that used to be popular on nico nico douga on 2007-2010  maybe there are still some people making these videos but i can not find them anymore .  in these videos the creator would take a character from an anime and then put a phrase/scene from that character for each hiragana/kana syllable.  for example for kagami from lucky star  this is the video i remember :   a a  - anta no tame janai. e e  - eeeeto. i i  - imi ga wakaranai.   i remember that there were many videos for many characters and anime but many of them were deleted and i can not find the videos i had favorited.  answer i found the video: http://www.nicovideo.jp/watch/sm2931268  the tags i was looking for are: tsutsukomikaruta and animekarutarinku 	
i understand that there will be some issues.   i have got a single entery italian schengen visa valid early april for 2 weeks. but because of the coronavirus, italy is under lockdown, which means that i am unable to make my trip as planned.  now if i changed my planned destination and to visit greece  by flight via paris  instead, can i enter france with my already issued italian schengen visa   i can provide my new air ticket and hotel reservations, but i will not go to italy at all. what other options i can choose if i need to make the trip on the same dates   answer edit: this is a fast evolving situation. under the current circumstances i suggest anyone planning to come to europe just cancel or postpone.   a schengen visa normally allows one to enter any schengen country.  there is no obligation to enter the schengen area through the country that issued your visa.  so entering via france  or any other country  is not an issue.  it is pretty common even.  the rule that you must apply to the consulate of the country that is your main destination exists to spread the workload, and to counter visa shopping.  to enforce that rule the immigration officer stamping you in may want to see hotel and flight reservations proving that indeed you plan to follow the itinerary on your schengen visa application.  arriving at the border with evidence suggesting that your plans are very different from those stated in your application will raise red flags, and may lead to a refusal.  this under normal circumstances.  however we are no longer under normal circumstances.  deciding to no longer visit italy is completely reasonable in light of the current situation.  so i would guess that cutting italy out of your plans is not going to raise a red flag.  you should however inquire with the french consulate and the french border police  dcpaf-em-cnic interieur.gouv.fr .  one last thing:  the way things are currently progressing all of europe will be where italy is now in about 10 days  and so might your home country .  you might want to completely postpone your trip.  	
will a pneumonia or flu vaccine help protect against coronavirus  answer some cases of coronavirus do lead to pneumonia. but the pneumonia vaccine will not help.   vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and haemophilus influenza type b  hib  vaccine, only help protect people from these specific bacterial infections,  according to harvard medical school.   they do not protect against any coronavirus pneumonia.   the flu shot does not protect against coronavirus. but it does help protect against a massive, unnecessary burden on hospitals already overwhelmed with coronavirus.  the cdc estimates about 140,000 to 810,000 people are hospitalized with the flu every year in the us. and about half of americans do not get vaccinated - including most children who die from the flu.	
what can we do with those people who still decided to travel  for skiing, example  and causing huge problems after they return, even though they know the fact that corona virus  or anything new in the future  is deadly and already spreading around the world   -- update:  according to phillip, i want to point out a specific country like finland, with finnish law, for finnish people who traveled to italy.  -- update 2:  i asked this question because i think in this way: if you are drunk and going to drive, and because of your irresponsible action could lead to the danger for some  one, two, maybe ten people , so you will be punished, even when you have not made a scratch to anybody.  but then why do there are people who would do something which leads to the danger of thousands of people, free to walk away     of course, we can exclude people who do not know, and people who have important things to do.  answer communicable diseases are endemic to the human condition  some places, times and situations are riskier than others but there is always a risk in widespread travel. outside of disease spread, there are other risks in travel  for example, if no-one traveled at all there would be no motor vehicle deaths.  on the flip-side, not traveling has its own dangers  for example, you will not die in a house fire if you are in your car.  of course, there are enormous benefits to widespread travel  economic, cultural and personal - life is to be experienced after all.  if you stop the skier from skiing, then you have just damaged the livelihood of all the people who depend on tourism  the airline, the hotel, the bartender, the ski technician, the baker in the ski resort etc.  everything is allowed unless it is prohibited  by and large, this is the way that the law works. it is legal to do anything you like. unless it is not.  it is not illegal to travel to, say, finland. so you can.  if the government  of whichever country  decides that the costs of allowing people to travel to finland now outweigh the benefits then they can prohibit it. however, that is a political decision  not a legal one.  as for your drink-driving example, i am old enough to remember when it was not illegal to drive drunk, although i was too young to drive. of course, if you are in somalia or kenya it is still legal. also, what counts a drunk varies by country - you can have a couple in finland but cross over into russia and you are breaking the law. why does finland allow such recklessness  because it is a political decision and politicians in finland and russia have reached different conclusions about what level of risk is acceptable. same with travel restrictions. 	
how bad will things get in canada  answer covid-19 has caused widespread destruction around the world, with even developed nations including italy, france and spain reporting thousands of deaths and completely overwhelmed health-care systems.  the situation was rapidly deteriorating into something similar in the u.s. by march 31, with new york city is iconic central park  turning into a makeshift hospital  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/scenes-from-the-epicentre- grim-images-from-new-york-city-1.4874424  and experts predicting  82,000 deaths  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/82-000-people-could-die-in- u-s-from-coronavirus-by-august-model-cited-by-white-house-1.4875601  even in a best-case scenario.  canada has thus far avoided the worst of the outbreak, but experts are unable to say whether that will continue - in fact, they are  unable to offer any credible forecasts at all  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/when- will-canada-pass-the-peak-of-covid-19-even-the-experts-don-t-know-1.4869852 .  projecting the spread of the virus through canada at this point is nearly impossible because of several factors, including uncertainty over how many canadians have actually been infected, unknowns around whether canadians are following public health recommendations well enough to curb covid-19 is spread, and the lag time between when an infection occurs and when it is reflected in the data.   we do not exactly know where we are on the epidemic curve, and we do not exactly know where we were when we started having our strong public health response,  dr. ashleigh tuite, an expert in modelling the spread of infectious diseases, told ctvnews.ca on march 26.	
i used a log-likelihood estimation  poisson  objective function to estimate and fit a curve to a data of reported infected cases of covid-19 using seir model in order to estimate its coefficients. how can i calculate the 95  confidence intervals for these estimated coefficients   thank you  answer you can use a monte carlo approach to estimate the variation of the parameters. such method is explained in this blogpost http://blog.ephorie.de/contagiousness-of-covid-19-part-i-improvements-of-mathematical-fitting-guest-post   also you can estimate the variance of parameters based on the fisher information matrix which can be approximated with the second-order derivative of an empirical likelihood function  based on your mle and estimate of deviance .   i am sure that there are several posts about this already on this q amp a site. if you search for  variance of parameter estimates  or something like that you might find out more. 	
i was scheduled to travel to germany on a research internship this summer. but due to the spread of covid-19, my internship has been cancelled. i have however already been issued a visa. do i need to cancel this visa, or is it okay if i just do not travel    answer it is ok to just not travel. there is no need to cancel the visa.  edit: the answer would be different if you intended to apply for another schengen visa applying for a schengen visa even though there  39 s still an existing unused visa 	
can women with covid-19 breastfeed  answer yes. women with covid-19 can breastfeed if they wish to do so. they should:practice respiratory hygiene during feeding, wearing a mask where available  wash hands before and after touching the baby routinely clean and disinfect surfaces they have touched.	
given the lack of critical assessment in the us media of china is massive quarantine, i think that there are many people in the us who would view it acceptable to shut down a major american city to prevent the spreading of an outbreak. however, i worry that no one is considering the consequences of such action.   with major parts of the economy no longer functioning, people would have difficulty with things like finding child care. this has trickle down effects, such as pharmacy staff staying at home with their children. this may lead to lethal consequences.   examples of trickle down effects:   cancer survivors can not access health care  this is currently happening in china .  lack of access to medicine. this can be deadly to people with severe chronic conditions  e.g. heart disease . lack of social support  e.g. no one is checking in on grandma .   question:   do policy makers  in either china or the us  consider the unintended consequences of large quarantines  if so whose advising them and studying those effects  is the decision to quarantine based off of a process or is it based off of an executive leader is  intuition .   my  intuition  is that these unintentional effects may be killing more people than covid 19.   references:  negative effects    npr-critically ill    positive reaction to china is response:   donald trump is light touch towards china trump says china is handling coronavirus  professionally    yes, i have heard mild criticism of china is handling of this, but it generally does not focus on negative effects on quarantine. they generally focus on china is lack of transparency and lack of action.  answer in the us there are two federal agencies the centers for disease control and prevention and the federal emergency management agency that have larges staffs of physicians, epidemiologists, public health, and disaster management professionals. those staffs spend a lot of their time worrying about questions like this, and gaming out different scenarios, just like the military games out battle strategies. there is also a large academic community of public health specialists that study problems like this. see for example these academic papers:  quarantine, isolation and the duty of easy rescue in public health    we address the issue of whether, why and under what conditions,  quarantine and isolation are morally justified, with a particular  focus on measures implemented in the developing world. we argue that  the benefits of quarantine and isolation justify some level of  coercion or compulsion by the state, but that the state should be able  to provide the strongest justification possible for implementing such  measures.   the challenge of mandatory evacuation: providing for and deciding for    insufficient attention has been given to the ethical and legal  questions surrounding mandatory evacuation in disasters and  emergencies. we argue that mandatory evacuation orders entail a  governmental duty both to provide for people and to decide for people:  government must trigger the provision of critical resources as well as  vigorous and persistent efforts to persuade reluctant citizens to  leave.   of course the political powers might choose to not to follow the advice of their professional staff or outside professionals, but that comes with grave political risks if the situation goes south. the political powers might also receive contradictory advice from different groups of professionals. which experts should they listen to   there is also the chance that even with the best of intentions and the best available information, the experts will make the wrong call, or apply the  lessons of the last battle  in the wrong situation.   these are hard questions. for example, in in august 2005 hurricane katrina hit new orleans and over 1800 people were killed. the governments of louisiana and new orleans we broadly criticized for not fully evacuating the city. later in 2005 hurricane rita was projected to hit houston and a mandatory evacuation was ordered. dozens of people died in the evacuation of houston, from heat stroke, accidents, and a tragic bus fire. as it turned out, hurricane rita struck houston only a passing blow, and fewer people died in the storm than in the evacuation. new lesson learned: do not evacuate, shelter in place, evacuate only those most at risk. then in 2017 hurricane harvey hit houston, causing massive flooding, and requiring the rescue of thousands of people trapped in floodwaters. and afterwards everyone was asking why did not houston evacuate .  predicting the future is hard. 	
there are four drugs being tested for effectiveness against covid-19 in the solidarity trial. three of them have obvious potential mechanisms of action:   remdesivir is an rna polymerase inhibitor. it might stop the virus from multiplying once it infects a cell. hydroxychloroquine may interfere with the spike protein the virus uses to attach to cells. interferon beta has general antiviral effects.   but i can not find anything that would explain why the lopinavir/ritonavir combination is expected to do anything. both drugs appear to be protease inhibitors that are fairly specific to hiv, while sars-cov-2 is not even in the same general group of viruses as hiv.  answer the nejm editorial that accompanied that issue says:    one antiviral-drug candidate is a combination of the hiv protease inhibitors lopinavir and ritonavir. lopinavir, which acts against the viral 3cl protease, has modest antiviral activity against sars-cov-2.   a quick search shows that sars-cov 3cl protease was the topic of some more in-depth investigations, including a theoretical thai study of how of lopinavir might act on the 3clpro of sars:    it was found that a mixture of two hiv-1 proteinase inhibitors, lopinavir and ritonavir, exhibited some signs of effectiveness against the sars virus. to understand the fine details of the molecular interactions between these proteinase inhibitors and the sars virus via complexation, molecular dynamics simulations were carried out for the sars-cov 3clpro free enzyme  free sars  and its complexes with lopinavir  sars-lpv  and ritonavir  sars-rtv . the results show that flap closing was clearly observed when the inhibitors bind to the active site of sars-cov 3clpro.      from:  nukoolkarn et al.  molecular dynamic simulations analysis of ritronavir and lopinavir as sars-cov 3clpro inhibitors  j theor biol.    it is  above my pay grade  to comment whether that makes any sense or not as a practical approach to sars  or covid-19  medication, but the paper notes that lopinavir has a similar effect on the hiv protease:    similarly, this kind of flap  loop  closing was also observed when inhibitors bind in the active site of hiv-1 protease  hornak et al., 2006a, hornak et al., 2006b .   as noted on protopedia    drugs that inhibit hiv protease prevent the virus from replicating, and are crucial components of anti-hiv therapies.    the proteolytic active site of hiv protease is covered by two  flaps . it is believed that these flaps must open to enable substrate polyprotein to enter the active site. drugs that inhibit hiv protease tend to  lock  the flaps closed.   so i think they were/are hoping that 3cl plays a similarly vital role for sars and covid-19 virus replications, and so that drugs that close it will inhibit virus replication.  there seem to be other researchers who have considered this approach for the sars-covs, so perhaps it has some merit:    one promising approach is to develop small molecule inhibitors of the essential major polyprotein processing protease 3clpro. here we report a complete description of the tetrapeptide substrate specificity of 3clpro using fully degenerate peptide libraries consisting of all 160,000 possible naturally occurring tetrapeptides.    there is even a library-compound-search paper like that  i.e. trying to find molecules that would inhibit its 3cl  for sars-cov-2 out already  published march 26  by chinese and saudi researchers:    the viral 3-chymotrypsin-like cysteine protease  3clpro  enzyme controls coronavirus replication and is essential for its life cycle. 3clpro is a proven drug discovery target in the case of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus  sars-cov  and middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus  mers-cov . recent studies revealed that the genome sequence of sars-cov-2 is very similar to that of sars-cov. therefore, herein, we analysed the 3clpro sequence, constructed its 3d homology model, and screened it against a medicinal plant library containing 32,297 potential anti-viral phytochemicals/traditional chinese medicinal compounds. our analyses revealed that the top nine hits might serve as potential anti- sars-cov-2 lead molecules for further optimisation and drug development process to combat covid-19.   however, this latter paper also notes that there are some key differences between the sars-cov and sars-cov-2 3cl proteases, so compounds that work against one might not be so effective against the other:    results revealed that the sars-cov-2 3clpro receptor-binding pocket conformation resembles that of the sars-cov 3clpro binding pocket and raises the possibility that inhibitors intended for sars-cov 3clpro may also inhibit the activity of sars-cov-2 3clpro.    to test this hypothesis, we docked  r -n- 4- tert-butyl phenyl -n- 2- tert-butylamino -2-oxo-1- pyridin-3-yl ethyl furan-2-carboxamide , a potential noncovalent inhibitor of sars-cov 3clpro named ml188  35 , with the sars-cov-2 3clpro homology model. we also docked ml188 with the sars-cov 3clpro structure  pdb id: 3m3v  as a reference, and ml188 bound strongly to the receptor binding site of sars-cov 3clpro. the inhibitor targets the cys-his catalytic dyad  cys-145 and his-41  along with the other residues, and the docking score  s   -12.27  was relatively high. however, surprisingly, ml188 did not show significant binding to the catalytic dyad  cys-145 and his-41  of sars-cov-2, and the docking score  s   -8.31  was considerably lower  fig. s3 .    this paper also investigated  in the theoretical/computational sense  three other drugs of that kind that might work on the sars-cov-2 3cl: nelfinavir, prulifloxacin and colistin. nelfinavir is also a protease inhibitor used to treat hiv-1 and wikipedia says it is also being investigated for covid-19, but i have not checked the details. interestingly perhaps, lopinavir is not mentioned at all in this sars-cov-2 inhibitor screening study. i could not tell you exactly why, but it might be because there are at least six  1st gen  protease inhibitors used in hiv treatment  and some  2nd gen  ones  so they probably just picked one for this study as representative. 	
does the bill include anything about student loans  answer federal student loan borrowers would get a reprieve from payments until october and any interest that would have accrued during that period would be waived.  the agreement also allows students to keep any unspent money from pell grants or student loans and prevents students who have to leave school due to the pandemic from losing eligibility for future pell grants.  i should also note the bill explicitly allows colleges and universities to pay students for work-study programs even if they are unable to work.	
what are the symptoms  answer symptoms include fever, coughing, sore throat, fatigue, and shortness of breath. however, be aware that at this stage if you have a cough or a cold, it is likely that you just have a cough or a cold and not coronavirus. if you have serious symptoms such as difficulty breathing, call 000 for urgent medical help. if you get these symptoms above after being in contact with someone who has been diagnosed with covid-19, seek medical attention. the same goes if you develop symptoms within 14 days of returning home to australia after being overseas.	
an article from 2008: new way to kill virus: shake them to death. can ultrasound have the potential to treat covid-19 infected humans at large-scale  because it does not require anesthesia    i went through an answer on quora. is it a good idea to make a cavity with ultrasound for humans, specifically targeting the respiratory organs   my apologies if this seems dope, i myself am an engineer, but this covid-19 seems to affect the future generations as well so i thought of asking here. please validate it.  references: effects of ultrasound on living organisms  answer sounds like science fiction and not much use for treating patients. they talk about shining laser light on the virus to induce the resonant frequency to shatter the virus.  but, covid-19 is a deep tissue infection, and i can not imagine how lasers could possibly get inside the lung, heart and other tissues affected by this virus. 	
i am currently an undergraduate student, and looking to apply to grad schools in the future. in response to covid-19, my school is offering the ability between choosing the letter grade earned to appear on the transcript, or a pass if you earned over a c, for each individual class.   i am wondering if choosing the pass option for one of my classes would reflect poorly on grad school applications. the class in question is a not a major or graduation requirement, and it is 4 credits, so taking a b or lower would hurt my gpa.   thank you   answer   the class in question is a not a major or graduation requirement   assuming you want to go to graduate school in a topic closely related to your major, taking one unrelated course pass/fail will not matter under normal circumstances. it will matter even less because everybody knows students are being encouraged to take classes pass/fail during the pandemic. 	
i own two tourers which i normally relubricate their aluminium alloy seatposts every spring with high quality grease. due to moving to cambridge and the coronavirus outbreak, both cycles are being kept safe 10 miles away but if i miss this lubrication will their seatposts become seized   answer no they will not. it is often enough to lubricate once when the bike was built unless it is used/kept for a very long time. especially if the bike is kept in a dry place. it is not necessary to lube it once a year. the lube stays there and protects the interface for a long time. if you pull a bike that has not been used for ten years from a shed, many things could be seized but even then seizing of the seat tube is far from guaranteed. it is even unlikely if it was well conserved before the storage.  interface of two different metals could change it due to electrochemical potentials and rusting. i assumed aluminium alloy on both sides or steel on both sides.  just do it the next year or when you get to your bike. 	
a big problem with the current covid-19 epidemic is the difficulty of getting tested  due to mild symptoms and lack of testing kits . this makes it impossible for patients with little or no symptoms to know how likely it is to be infected and further spreading the disease.   there are estimations available but only take into account confirmed cases  and range between 10x-1000x of this number . how could one get estimations of the number of patients by using secondary features of the distribution that could be more robust  age-adjusted death rate under intensive care could be one of several such parameters.    answer death rate  using death rate may work when people that die have most likely acquired the virus locally.   however, for the moment, many people die because they acquired the virus during a visit to another area, or because they got it from another person that acquired the virus abroad.   thus this death-rate based number is not very accurate unless the virus has fully spread out  in which case it will be more likely to get infected from a local source .   for the cases of wuhan, italy and other epi-centers, which have more spread due to local infections rather than foreign infections, death rate might be a good probe  although you still have to deal with the delay .  in addition, while death rate might be more thrustworthy than total cases of infection  just think about the germans, with lots of supplies, are testing with a lot of thousands people, while neighboring countries, with limited supplies, are trying to limit the use of testing as much as possible , bit it is still a biased number. it is not easy to determine/pinpoint the cause of death. often multitude of diseases are present. if a person with cancer or aids gets a pneumonia from ncov-19, then what is the cause  the sampling of  cause of death  is not very clear and becomes part of the analysis.  statistics are only usefull for a comparison when they have a similar underlying basis.   travel data  the virus is mostly spreading out irregularly over a network. it spreads out differently at different scales, within the household, neighborhood, workplaces/schools, villages, agglomerations, countries, continents. you can sort of see the virus spread around with sudden jumps from large node/community to large node/community.   you can use occurrence of the virus in those nodes/communities as the variable  so you do not count individuals, since we do not know the presence in all individuals, but instead count the much better known presence of the virus in communities , and then use a model for the dynamics of the virus spreading between this different nodes in the network.  for instance. e.g. in region a you encounter x cases of disease among people that came from region b and y cases of disease among people that came from region c, while the travel to those regions is  r  and  q , then an estimate of the relative presence of the virus in regions b:c can be approximated by  x/r : y/q .  i remember there was an early article on the spread of covid-19  i believe it was by chinese scholars  that tried to estimate  r 0  and included information about the frequency of travel between different regions.    random tests  you can perform test on a sample from the population that does not show any symptoms and use the prevalence of the virus among this sample to make an estimate about the prevalence in the entire population.  if the prevalence is very small then this requires a very large sample which might be difficult. in that case one may perform the test among a sample where the suspicion of the prevalence is higher and gain some information about how many people have the virus in that group. such a measure can be used to calibrate the estimates based on incomplete information  ie. along with other information, such as the rate at which people with the virus have the particular mild or severe symptoms, you get an idea about how much the current estimates are underestimating the true number of cases . 	
should core malaria vector control interventions be maintained in view of the rapid global spread of covid-19  answer in recent days, there have been reports of the suspension of insecticide-treated net  itn  and indoor residual spraying  irs  campaigns in several african countries due to concerns around exposure to covid-19. suspending such campaigns will leave many vulnerable populations at greater risk of malaria, particularly young children and pregnant women. who strongly encourages countries not to suspend the planning for - or implementation of - vector control activities, including itn and irs campaigns, while ensuring these services are delivered using best practices to protect health workers and communities from covid-19 infection. modifications of planned distribution strategies may be needed to minimize exposure to the coronavirus. the alliance for malaria prevention has provided valuable guidance for national malaria control programmes on the distribution of itns in the context of the covid-19 response  these recommendations are consistent with who global guidance.for the implementation of irs campaigns, who supports guidance developed by the u.s. president is malaria initiative in the context of covid-19. among other actions, the guidance advises irs deployment teams to: increase the number of hand washing stations and soap at all operations sites  reinforce morning health checks for all team members, adding temperature checks where feasible  wear n-95 masks and personal protective equipment before entering operations sites  and frequently wipe down any touched surfaces  door handles, vehicle railings, etc . in addition to the above recommendations, basic who-recommended protective measures should be provided for the general population.	
what is the incubation period  answer symptoms show up 14 days after exposure to the virus.	
can i catch covid-19 from the feces of someone with the disease  answer the risk of catching covid-19 from the feces of an infected person appears to be low. while initial investigations suggest the virus may be present in feces in some cases, spread through this route is not a main feature of the outbreak. because this is a risk, however, it is another reason to clean hands regularly, after using the bathroom and before eating.	
in china, the largest number of reported covid-19 infections was in hubei province.  other countries are experiencing exponential increase in reported infections, while the remainder of china is reporting relatively small numbers of casessource 1  what protects chinese provinces other than hubei from covid-19 outbreak    what is different about the remainder of china compared to the rest of the world  is there anything we can learn from the provinces in china that so far were less affected by the virus than hubei    answer i live in guangdong, and this is what i have been seeing  amp  reading about.  wuhan  city in hubei  is where the outbreak supposedly began. and it went unnoticed for a while, which mean it was spreading locally more-so than it was spreading nationally/internationally. near at the start of the chinese new year holiday, the government decided to quarantine all of hubei province. so while other provinces already had infected people, they spread had not grown as significantly as it had in hubei yet.  the chinese government then decided to take specific measures to control the epidemic. for starters, they required mask-wearing and encouraged staying indoors. they also began to set up body temperature checks all over the place  apartments, neighborhoods, roads leading into cities, and places of work once the holiday ended. fever seems to be the first symptom, so this is why .  if anyone in an apartment building was confirmed to have the virus, then the entire building and all residents were/are quarantined for 14 days  happened to a 30  story apartment building next to mine . elevators, doors, and other public spaces are often disinfected, particularly if a suspected case had been in the area. again, i saw this at a temperature checkpoint, someone must have had a fever and a little bit later some folks came and sprayed down the area.  schools are also closed in all provinces across the country, and students are doing online schooling. some companies are also allowing employees to work from home, or istaggering  their work days  half come in into the office on mon, wed, fri, the other half come in tuesday and thursday . this decreases the number of people a possible infected person can pass the virus to.  on top of this, companies needed to  apply  to be able to resume work. here in shenzhen, nobody could return to work within 14 days of returning from the city, assuming they left during the holiday. we also need to record down our body temp when coming to and leaving from work. according to an sms i received from the local government, if 2 employees have a body temperature    37.3c, then it needs to be reported immediately, as it indicates a possible spread in that workplace.  in short, the virus was able to take a foothold in hubei, and it was noticed before it took a significant foothold in other provinces. therefore other provinces had time to implement proactive and preventative measures, before the situation grew to hubei-level of significance.  the best way to prevent it from spreading is simple steps, such as not going outside unless its necessary, avoid close contact with others  defined as within 6 feet for an extended period of time , washing your hands, and disinfecting often-touched surfaces like door knobs, keyboards, cell phones, etc. it remains to be seen whether other countries will take the same rather drastic measures that are being taken in china, i suppose it all depends on how bad things get in other countries. 	
i am wondering if president trump has the constitutional authority to ban all remaining presidential primary elections in all the states in an effort to contain the coronavirus outbreak    answer probably not. the primaries are not under federal jurisdiction  and in some states, they are actually run by the party and not the state .  in practical terms, the trump line continues to be everything is fine and we will be back to normal soon so it is hard to imagine him taking such a step  although this could change if he thought it would benefit him politically . 	
can i walk my dog under the category of daily exercise  answer yes you can.    according to government advice for people with animals, if you have a dog that needs walking, you should count this as the one form of exercise you take every day.    it is important that you should remain 2m away from anyone outside your household while walking your dog.    there is no guidance from the government on whether your dog should be on a lead, but some parks, including the royal parks, insist on this as a rule, to help ensure people maintain social distance.    as well as your daily exercise, you may also leave the house to care for a vulnerable person, and this care may involve walking their dog.    when you do this, you should always remember to wash your hands before and after handling the dog, and remain 2m away from the owner.	
i have seen mentioned in an article from march that:    earlier this month,  rand  paul, a licensed physician, voted against a bipartisan  8 billion emergency coronavirus funding bill. he was the sole senator to vote against.   how did he vote on the subsequent, even bigger, covid-related stimulus packages   answer we can see here how paul voted on the bill you mention in your question, when he was the sole senator to vote against the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act. subsequently, he also was one of eight republicans who voted against the families first coronavirus response act.  as paul tested positive for covid-19 on or before 22nd march, and went into quarantine, he was unable to take part in the various cloture votes on the cares act, nor the subsequent 96-0 vote on the final bill, and is recorded as not voting.  interestingly, he did release a statement on march 20th that said he would shortly introduce his covid-19 recovery act, which he said would provide  relief to american families and businesses without adding to the skyrocketing debt that also threatens our country.   given the passage of the cares act, this seems to have now been shelved. 	
first of all, i will honestly admit that i adopted the style of question from the following thread:   is traveling to italy safe during the covid-19 outbreak   however, unlike nevi, i intend to disclose personal information s.t. it can be objectively judged whether traveling to spain is secure or not.    i am under 28, male and have no disease or anything similar - as far as i know, anyway.  i intended to travel to barcelona from 15th march to 05th april,  getting there by train via hannover-cologne  ice , cologne-brussels  ice , brussels-paris  thalys  and paris-barcelona  tgv . on the return journey: barcelona-paris  tgv , paris-frankfurt  tgv , frankfurt-hannover  ic .  the plan was to go to a language school by midday and in the afternoon, get to know barcelona itself. this trip is being offered by my scholarship that i have for my studies.  i have not reached out to them yet, because usually, if canceling a trip to a a language school, they require you to pay the entire fee of 1,000 eur  no spelling error , unless you prove you were ill  by going to a doctor . but maybe, they make an exception due to the circumstances - i think i should reach out to them soon.  i currently live in germany in a big city and my dad is a taxi driver who often has guests from the airport as well, so the question is: are not i equally exposed to the corona-virus in germany, i.e. at home   on the 6th april, my term officially starts, and from mid-april, i wanted to start my bachelor thesis, so it would be great if i were not in quarantine in april.  also, i care about getting the virus to my home community - i mean, who does not  but then, the question is, should not my dad stop taxi driving for a while  i told him my opinion, but he said we need money for a living.  i have already booked the tickets for 360eur and after having informed myself, i probably would get back only 44eur. however, i understandably do not care about the money right now.    edit: alright, i searched for an alternative and found one: i could take a  flixbus  from frankfurt  main  central station to barcelona directly and vice versa. the costs for the entire trip would be around 100eur, and i can get easily from hannover to frankfurt/from frankfurt to hannover with an ic e . however, the only question is whether i have to travel or not ... i mean, if the situation should escalate in barcelona/spain/europe, then i could be in quarantine and that would not be great.   edit edit: if sb wants to now, i decided to cancel my trip. i will lose around 1,050 eur at least, since my scholarship is not ready to officially cancel the trip.   best regards,  mathisfun  answer spain itself does not seem particularly risky, it is not the country most impacted in europe, it has fewer cases than either france or germany, most of them tourists or imported cases and is not considered a  risk area .  still, there are several things to be aware of:   traveling in general does increase your exposure  to this and other viruses , you would be spending hours in enclosed spaces and at times crowded public transportation, which, everything else being equal, is riskier than staying at home in either of the countries you would be crossing. the itinerary you describe would have you going through france, which is developing into one of the most severely affected countries in europe. there are several clusters whose source has not been fully elucidated, including one very close to paris. at this moment, the french government does not advise against travel in general  only in the oise and haute-savoie departement  but the situation could evolve quickly. it did activate  stage 2  of its emergency plan meaning the virus is circulating through the population and the focus is on slowing it down rather than isolating clusters and risk areas. if the situation worsens, you could conceivably be putting others at risk. there are few restrictions on travel in europe and blanket bans or border closures seem unlikely but if anything, spanish authorities should be more concerned about people like you coming from france than you should be about being in spain. it is possible the outbreak would develop further while you are in spain to the point of making your return more difficult or, indeed, mean isolation would be recommended when coming back to germany. you cannot know this before leaving  and i speak from experience as this just happened to me coming back from italy .  	
is there a cure  answer there is no treatment for coronavirus. some hospitals in china and in queensland have used antiviral drugs to treat sufferers, and there are clinical trials into the effectiveness of antiviral treatments. but the care of patients is largely what is known as supportive care, or making the patient comfortable: for example, giving panadol to lower fever or giving oxygen if someone is struggling to breathe. in critical cases, a person would be placed on a heart-lung life-support machine in an intensive care unit, but most people who contract the virus do not need to go to hospital and can recover at home in isolation.	
there has been some electron micrograph of sars-cov-2 published  but are there any fluorescent/ confocal-fluorescent image of them  or is it possible to do them  i know that viruses are usually much smaller than capacity of light microscope but i think by using any immunofluorescent probe or fish technique it is possible to visualise the locations occurance of the virus in cell or tissue. at least one website says it is possible to visualise viral infections using fluorescence techniques.   now is there any such image for sars-cov-2, and is it possible to take    answer if you have an antibody against the viral proteins you can do an immuno staining followed by fluorescence imaging. for this type of technique you would need a very specific antibody. i am not aware that this exist at the moment and i do not think anyone had the time to do it for immunostaining purposes.  for fish it would depend on the genomic nature of the virus  ssrna, ssdna, dsrna, dsdna , again you would need specific probes to capture it. again specific is key.  edit 01.04.2020: this group says they have found specific antibodies http://www.centivax.com/covid19 	
there has been a hong kong flu, a swine flu, h1n1, sars, mers, ebola, zika and other global health threats since the 1960s. how is the coronavirus different  answer the current outbreak is the world is first pandemic caused by a coronavirus, a family of virsuses that includes the covid-19 virus, according to the head of the who.  while more people in the u.s. were infected by and died after contracting the flu in 1968 and 2009, the new coronavirus has infected and killed more people in the u.s. than did sars, mers, ebola or zika.  by comparison, the 1968  hong kong flu  pandemic was caused by an influenza a virus and killed an estimated 1 million people worldwide, with about 100,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. the 2009  swine flu  pandemic was caused by an h1n1 subtype of the influenza a virus and killed at least 151,000 people worldwide during the first year the virus circulated, with more than 12,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. 	
is there help for small businesses in the senate stimulus package  answer there is a lot of focus on the individual checks, but i am firmly of the mind the small business loan piece of this is far and away the most important given what is happening right now.  the bill directs  350 billion for loans to small businesses and nonprofits with under 500 employees. the loans would be guaranteed by the small business administration but the actual lender would be approved banks and financial institutions, which should get the money out the door faster. businesses could receive up to  10 million in loans to float employee salaries, payroll expenses, mortgage and other debt payments. if used for those purposes, the loans would be forgiven in the future. it is a huge deal if it works properly.  there are several other small business related provisions in here that may be useful and/or valuable to those who are eligible. be sure to check them out to see if you may qualify -- a key component of this package is expanding eligibility for government programs  see: the unemployment insurance expansion/enhancement .	
a lot of countries in the eu are now closing their borders due to covid-19.  i am looking for an answer that applies to all such eu countries that have shut their borders for  foreigners , however, to use some example for my question, poland states:    entry into poland is still allowed for:    a  nationals of poland, their spouses and children.    c  passengers with a temporary or permanent residence permit.   now, as a not-polish citizen but a citizen of another eu country, my understanding has always been that by default we have a temporary residence permit for any eu country we would like to travel to   and obviously after 5 years we automatically get a permanent residence permit if stayed in the country   does this count as having a temporary residence permit  if i do not normally live in such country but would like to travel or transit there as a eu citizen       p.s. there is a similar text for czechia, lithuania, slovakia which is not as vague as poland is:    passengers are not allowed to enter czechia.    - this does not apply to nationals of czechia.    - this does not apply to passengers with a czech residence permit for stay over 90 days or for permanent stay.    1. passengers are not allowed to enter lithuania    -this does not apply to nationals of lithuania    -this does not apply to residents of lithuania    passengers are not allowed to enter slovakia.    -this does not apply to nationals and residents of slovakia. they must remain in quarantine for 14 days upon arrival.   but still vague whether arriving into the country as an eu citizen is considered that you do have residence.   answer yes, eu citizens are foreigners. the czech regulations now only allow czech citizens, foreigners with temporary residence over 90 days and permanent residents to enter the country.   graphics by the ministry of the interior of cr  details can be found in this document.    from midnight from sunday to monday, the ban to entry is extended to  all foreigners, not only from high risk epidemic countries. foreigners  residing in the czech republic with temporary residence over 90 days  or permanent residence are excluded from this measure.      the prohibition of entry, as referred in point i. of the resolution, does not apply for:       czech citizens or foreigners with temporary or permanent residence  permit in the czech republic, who are demonstrably regularly crossing  internal borders, i.e. cross-border workers working within 100 km from  the state border,    citizens of germany, austria, poland and slovakia who are demonstrably  regularly crossing internal borders, i.e. cross-border workers working  within 100 km from the state border,    eu citizen transiting through the czech republic territory to his/her  home country - this evidence of transit must be accompanied with  signed declaration of honour,    foreigner with residence permit in another eu member state transiting  through the czech republic territory - this evidence of transit must  be accompanied with signed declaration of honour.  	
is it really all forgiven, if used appropriately  answer yep. if you use the ppp loan for one of the purposes listed above for the eight weeks following the inception of the loan, it is forgiven. in the added guidance given by the sba yesterday, they mention that  it is anticipated that not more than 25  of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.  for the ppp, you will need to apply for forgiveness with your lender that is servicing your loan. similarly, the  10,000 advance  which should be coming to those of you that applied on monday pretty soon  is not required to be repaid, even if you are denied additional funds. it is a little ambiguous to me whether you are required to use the funds to pay the above expenses  it says  may  . currently, i am relying on the interpretation of the us chamber of commerce. we will learn more as additional guidance comes out and the grants start getting disbursed, which will be soon.	
i am trying to forecast aggregated daily covid cases in europe. these are present day numbers in italy.   temp  lt - c 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0, 2,  2 , 2 , 2 , 2 , 2 , 2 , 3 , 3 , 3, 3,  3 , 3 , 3 , 3 , 3 , 3, 3 , 3 , 3 , 3, 20 , 62 , 155 , 229 , 322 , 453 ,655 , 888, 1128 , 1694,2036 ,  2502 ,3089 , 3858, 4636 , 5883 , 7375, 9172, 10149, 12462,12462    my problem is that all the models underestimates the exponential growth patterns as this one with exponential smoothing.  if i try to predict using data until 4636 value, the different models estimates 8-9,0000 when the real number was 12,462 . i have tried transformations, different models etc.   library data.table  library tidyverse  library forecast  library lubridate   covfirst  lt - min which temp  gt  0   22  starts 22 day in january   temp2  lt - ts temp, start   c 2020, 22 ,   frequency   365.25   temp2   gt   autoplot  test  lt - ets temp2,  allow.multiplicative.trend  true    test   gt   forecast ., h   14    gt   autoplot     ts italy confirmed  lt - temp2 forecast italy confirmed  lt - test   gt   forecast ., h   14    i a little confounded by this, because the development until present day is actually pretty straight forward  exponential . i do not like fitting a exponential regression model as this will not catch up when the exponential part of the epidemic stops.  i think   answer you can force ets   to use a model with multiplicative trend  and multiplicative error  by using the parameter model  mmn . of course, you need to start the series later, since multiplicative trends and errors do not make sense for zero values.  temp3  lt - ts temp - 1:9  , start   c 2020, 32 ,   frequency   365.25  test  lt - ets temp3,model  mmn   test   gt   forecast ., h   14    gt   autoplot       i certainly hope this graphic is what you wanted.  it also illustrates why ets   is very careful about fitting multiplicative trends on its own. they can and will explode. also:    i do not like fitting a exponential regression model as this will not catch up when the exponential part of the epidemic stops.   of course, ets   will not know when to stop extrapolating the exponential growth, so this  extremely correct  rationale applies equally to ets  . you may want to consider models that are explicitly tailored towards epidemiology or  market  penetration, like the bass diffusion model or similar.  edit: rob hyndman explains in more depth why smoothing and similar models do not make a lot of sense to forecast covid-19, and gives pointers to more appropriate models. and here is ivan svetunkov. 	
my mom has come to us on a tourist visa and her i-94 expires on the first week of may.   due to the coronavirus, travel restrictions have been imposed in our home country  india . also we want to avoid the risk of traveling in flights at this time.  is there an easy way to to extend her stay in the us by one or two months   i am aware that we should fill out an i-539 to extend our stay. but in-order to submit the online application it requires a fee of  370.    is filing i-539 the easiest way to extend her stay at this time  if so, is it possible to waive the fee due to the coronavirus situation   after filing i-539 should she wait for an approval to continue her stay  or is the receipt good enough    can you please help me with these  thanks    edit 1 :  with the current situation of the virus, traveling anywhere sounds like a very risky operation, especially for elders.   that is the main reason behind this question. if the us government will allow visitors to overstay until covid-19 settles down   answer   is filing i-539 the easiest way to extend her stay at this time    yes. it is also the hardest way. it is the only way.  more seriously, there could be some sort of amnesty or other program offered to nonimmigrants in the us who are affected by the pandemic. if that happens, it could save you a few hundred dollars.  but i would not count on it. i certainly have not heard any mention of it, and the current administration is profoundly anti-immigrant, so it is unlikely to happen without political pressure.  in terms of risk analysis, the application fee will be well spent.    if so, is it possible to waive the fee due to the corona virus situation    applying for a fee waiver is going to make her look like someone with financial problems, which will have a negative impact on her application as well as future applications for admission to the us. i would not do it.    after filing i-539 should she wait for an approval to continue her stay  or is the receipt good enough    once the application is filed, she can remain until it is refused, or, if it is granted, until the end of the period of extended stay that is granted. 	
one could fit an exponential in many different ways. this post suggests doing the down-and-dirty lm on the log of the response variable. this so post suggests using nls which requires a starting estimate. this so post suggests glm with a gamma/log link function. here, the illustrious  glen-b explains some potential differences between approaches.  what are the pros/cons and domains of applicability for these different approaches  do these methods differ in how well or in what way they calculate confidence intervals   like all the other data scientists at home right now, i am messing around with covid 19 data.  one thing in particular i noticed is that i can do lm with log, log10, log2 etc., but would have to convert from natural log with glm.    library tidyverse  library magrittr    gt     gt  attaching package: amagrittr    gt  the following object is masked from  package:purrr :   gt     gt  set names   gt  the following object is masked from  package:tidyr :   gt     gt  extract library ggplot2  library gridextra    gt     gt  attaching package:  gridextra    gt  the following object is masked from  package:dplyr :   gt     gt  combine library broom   covid raw   read.csv     file url  http://raw.githubusercontent.com/cssegisanddata/covid-19/master/csse covid 19 data/csse covid 19 time series/time series 19-covid-confirmed.csv  ,  file url  http://raw.githubusercontent.com/cssegisanddata/covid-19/master/csse covid 19 data/csse covid 19 time series/time series 19-covid-deaths.csv  ,  header t,  stringsasfactors f,  check.names   t    covid world     covid raw   gt    select starts with  x      gt    summarize all sum    gt    set rownames  world     gt        transpose to make countries the columns  t     gt    data.frame stringsasfactors   f    gt    rownames to column  date     gt    mutate date   str remove date,  x     gt   as.date format   m. d. y      gt    mutate at vars -date ,  as.numeric .    covid    covid raw   gt    select country.region, starts with  x      gt    group by country.region    gt    summarize all sum    gt    mutate country.region   make.names country.region     gt    column to rownames  country.region     gt        transpose to make countries the columns  t     gt    data.frame stringsasfactors   f    gt    rownames to column  date     gt    mutate date   str remove date,  x     gt   as.date format   m. d. y      gt    mutate at vars -date ,  as.numeric .     gt        add in world  inner join covid world, by  date     gt    mutate days     difftime date, min date , units  days     gt    as.numeric       last 14     covid   gt    select world, us, days    gt    tail 14    gt    mutate days   days - min days    print last 14    gt  world us days   gt  1 3460 14 0   gt  2 3558 17 1   gt  3 3802 21 2   gt  4 3988 22 3   gt  5 4262 28 4   gt  6 4615 36 5   gt  7 4720 40 6   gt  8 5404 47 7   gt  9 5819 54 8   gt  10 6440 63 9   gt  11 7126 85 10   gt  12 7905 108 11   gt  13 8733 118 12   gt  14 9867 200 13  lm log world    days, last 14    gt     gt  call:   gt  lm formula   log world    days, data   last 14    gt     gt  coefficients:   gt   intercept  days    gt  8.06128 0.08142  glm formula   world   days, data last 14, family gaussian link  log      gt     gt  call: glm formula   world   days, family   gaussian link    log  ,    gt  data   last 14    gt     gt  coefficients:   gt   intercept  days    gt  8.00911 0.08819    gt     gt  degrees of freedom: 13 total  i.e. null   12 residual   gt  null deviance: 54450000    gt  residual deviance: 816200 aic: 199.4  nls world   exp a   b days , last 14, start list a 5, b 0.03     gt  nonlinear regression model   gt  model: world   exp a   b   days    gt  data: last 14   gt  a b    gt  8.00911 0.08819    gt  residual sum-of-squares: 816246   gt     gt  number of iterations to convergence: 8    gt  achieved convergence tolerance: 1.25e-06    models   data.frame    days   last 14 days,   lm   exp 2.59   0.188 last 14 days ,   glm   exp 8.009   0.088 last 14 days ,   nls   exp 8.01   0.0819 last 14 days           models   gt     ggplot        geom point aes x days, y lm, color  lm         geom point aes x days, y glm, color  glm      created on 2020-03-20 by the reprex package  v0.3.0   answer one of the differences is the likelihoods for each model. in case readers can not remember, the likelihood encapsulates assumptions about the conditional distribution of the data. in the case of covid-19, this would be the distribution of infections  or reported new cases, or deaths, etc  on the given day. whatever we want the outcome to be, let is call it  y . thus, the conditional distribution  e.g. the number of new cases today  would be  y vert t   think of this as  y  conditioned on  t  .   in the case of taking the log and then performing lm, this would mean that   log y  vert t  sim  mathcal n   mu x ,  sigma 2   . equivalently, that  y  is lognormal given  t . the reason we do linear regression on   log y   is because on the log scale, the conditional mean is independent of the variance, where as the mean of the log normal is also a function of the variance. so pro: we know how to do linear regression, but con this approach makes linear regression assumptions on the log scale which can always be assessed but might be hard to theoretically justify  another con is that people do not realize that predicting on the log scale and then taking the exponential actually biases predictions by a factor if   exp  sigma 2/2   if i recall correctly. so when you make predictions from a log normal model, you need to account for this.  so far as i understand, nls assumes a gaussian likelihood as well, so in this model   y  vert t  sim  mathcal n   exp  beta 0    beta t ,  sigma 2  . except now, we let the conditional mean of the outcome be non-linear. this can be a pain because no confidence intervals are not bounded below by 0, so your model might estimate a negative count of infections. obviously, that can not happen. when the count of infections  or whatever  is larger, then a gaussian can justifiable. but when things are just starting, then this probably is not the best likelihood. furthermore, if you fit your data using nls, you will see that it fits later data very well but not early data. that is because misfitting later data incurrs larger loss and the goal of nls is to minimize this loss. the approach with glm frees is a little and allows us to control the conditional distribution as well as the form of the conditional mean through the link function. in this model,  y  vert t  sim  text gamma   mu x ,  phi   with   mu x    g  -1   beta 0    beta 1  . we call  g  the link, and for the case of log link   mu x     exp  beta 0    beta 1 t  . pro these models are much more expressive, but i think the power comes from the ability to perform inference with a likelihood which is not normal. this lifts a lot of the restrictions, for example symmetric confidence intervals. the con is that you need a little more theory to understand what is going on.  	
how long can coronavirus last on different surfaces  answer viruses remain infectious on cardboard for 24 hours, and 3 days on plastic and stainless steel. so do not fail to wash up after touching these surfaces.	
can one travel from metro manila to somewhere else in philippines outside metro manila via another country during the covid-19 metro manila lockdown  or is it against the metro manila lockdown rules and would lead to being refused entry   answer technically possible, but in practice very difficult unless you are a citizen.  while some international flights to/from the philippines continue to operate, there have been massive capacity reductions, both to manila and other destinations.  more importantly, the philippines have also banned foreign visitors from countries with  local coronavirus transmission , an ill-defined group that is likely to cover virtually every larger country. this does not apply to philippine nationals and residents though: http://www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2020/3/12/philippines-expands-travel-ban-to-all-countries-with-local-covid-19-transmission.html 	
my friend had a 15-days visa from france. his flight to iran got canceled because of the coronavirus. after that, he came to germany  munich  because he had relatives here and went to the immigration office  kvr  to extend his visa. they told him that he can extend his visa but he should provide insurance. after providing insurance the immigration office got closed. he has sent several emails but he has not got any response yet. his visa is expired now and we are so worried about this issue. is it possible for him to go back to iran with an expired visa in this situation  the border police say that it is not possible and going back is an emergency now for him.  do you have any suggestions for this situation   answer the visa status should not prevent him from leaving germany. under normal circumstances overstays may be punished, but for people who leave on their own after a few days that would at most be a fine. that makes the response by the border police puzzling. are you sure nothing was lost in translation   the city of munich writes:   contact the kvr before the visa expires. he has done that. he will receive a certification which is valid until the kvr reopens. that has not happened yet. if there is no reply yet, he should send a mail with scans of    passport and visa a confirmation of the hotel or host where he is staying. a proof that departure is impossible.  they do not say what that is.  if available, proof of health insurance.    so it seems that he did everything required and the city administration can not keep up.   he should take care to get everything documented properly so that there are no problems with the next schengen visa application.     while i understand that returning home might be a personal emergency for him, i would think that munich is reasonably safe at this time. germany has more confirmed infections than iran, but fatalities are fewer. 	
on 16th march, 2020 the eu announced a 30 day travel restriction for all non-essential travel. on 6th april, 2020 germany has announced the new updated travel restrictions to germany. however, there is not much clarity for information about students.   can anybody provide information on what are the restrictions  if any  for people people who need to travel to germany for their studies  starting summer 2020  on national visa  type-d   how will these restrictions affect people, who are about to come to germany on student visa s    any help would be greatly appreciated.  answer at present there are to many unknowns to give a reliable answer.  assuming that the present restrictions remain until september:   a d-visa will be required    which is what a student visa is  the universities will be opened up in some form allowing new students to start   taking up residence would probably be considered a valid reason.   a quarantine period of 14 days, being introduced on the 10th of april, must be fulfilled.  	
this science daily article states that steroids could do more harm than good in treating coronavirus  covid-19 , referring to this the lancet article.     understanding the evidence for harm or benefit from corticosteroids in  2019-ncov is of immediate clinical importance.   it is unclear to me how exactly the use of corticosteroids  which is a common treatments for asthma patients  can do harm other than the vague explanation of  steroids also impair the immune system is ability to fight viruses .   how exactly does the use of steroids harm the body in case of fighting a virus such as sars-cov-2  2019-ncov  that causes covid-19   answer one of the primary purposes of corticosteroids is to suppress immune activity and inflammation: that is exactly why they are used in asthma.  of course the immune system has an actual job besides causing nuisance inflammation: fighting infection.  for some infections, the harm to the infected person caused by the immune reaction itself is worse than that of the pathogen itself, so steroids can help prevent damage or ease symptoms while the immune system continues to mount a response, without being hyperactive.  for others, immune suppression may be detrimental.   corticosteroids mediate the immune response by suppressing a variety of cytokines and increasing others, which influences activity circulating numbers of different immune cell populations. cortisol binds the glucocorticoid receptor, causing numerous changes in gene expression, many of which are associated with the immune system. from wikipedia:     cortisol  inhibits production of interleukin  il -12, interferon  ifn -gamma, ifn-alpha, and tumor-necrosis-factor  tnf -alpha by antigen-presenting cells  apcs  and t helper  th 1 cells, but upregulates il-4, il-10, and il-13 by th2 cells. this results in a shift toward a th2 immune response rather than general immunosuppression. the activation of the stress system  and resulting increase in cortisol and th2 shift  seen during an infection is believed to be a protective mechanism which prevents an over-activation of the inflammatory response.   in other words, corticosteroids work by by suppressing the generalized killing/cleanup part of the immune system mediated by macrophages and cd8  cells, while preserving the b-cell part of the immune system that produces specific antibodies and the neutrophils that phagocytose antibody- and complement-bound pathogens.  immune reactions are incredibly complex, so some of these basics may be violated in certain circumstances  including prolonged rather than acute dosing , and i have left out a lot of the other related immune cells. see references below  and the wikipedia pages linked above  for more:    cupps, t. r.,  amp  fauci, a. s.  1982 . corticosteroid-mediated immunoregulation in man. immunological reviews, 65 1 , 133-155.  mcgee, s.,  amp  hirschmann, j.  2008 . use of corticosteroids in treating infectious diseases. archives of internal medicine, 168 10 , 1034-1046. 	
i had a flight ticket from madrid  mad, spain  to miami  mia, us  to fly in march with aireuropa. i got an email saying the flight was cancelled 13 days and 21 hours before the flight. am i eligible to get a cash refund  am i entitled to further compensation   the flight was cancelled the day after donald trump forbade the entrance of non-residents to the us because of covid-19.  the answer from an aireuropa agent is no, i am not. they offer a voucher that has to be spent within 2020, which imo is very limited.  as i understand the eu rules, i can choose to get a refund unless the carrier can prove the cancellation was because of extraordinary circumstances. i guess covid-19 is extraordinary, but trump did not forbid flights to the us, but the entrance of some people, so aireuropa could have flown that day.  answer under eu rules you always get a refund. the extraordinary circumstances only mean that they do not have to pay any additional compensation. so far for the legal side.  their homepage does only offer vouchers, though. the reason is likely that they want to hold on to the cash - espececially since they are not selling any new tickets right now.  scenario one is that they do it because they are not customer-friendly and they assume that only a fraction of the passengers will fight for their money. scenario two is that they do not have the money to refund everyone and do not want to go bust.  my guess is that they are likely to fight any claim for monetary refunds. basically your options are to take the voucher  hoping they will still be around when you want to use it , or to fight for a refund.  	
romania has declared a state of emergency because of the covid-19 pandemic. this has a few effects. two of which i consider relevant for this questions are:   they limit some of people is rights  like the right to move freely, for ex   some decisions can badly affect certain categories of people  lose jobs, unable to get access to care, difficulty in access food, for ex .   old people are the most affected and in extreme situations. they might die not because of the virus, but because of decisions that are taken to slow down the progression of the virus, like being unable to access care, or medicine, or food because people are restricted in what they can do and health services are restricted in what cases they treat.  my question is this: if romanian politicians take bad decisions, or police and military enforce bad decisions and this causes deaths that could have been avoided if they had more...  common sense  let is say... after the state of emergency ends, are they accountable for their actions  or does anything go during a state of emergency with no consequences for those in power   answer the general answer to this, which applies in most democratic countries, is that governments are not legally responsible for  bad  decisions, whether made during a state of emergency or not. the main reasons for this are:   who is to say what is a  bad  decision  it is rarely obvious, even with 20/20 hindsight, and the general view is that the electorate is responsible for deciding, which means: the redress for governments who make bad decisions is that at the next election the people will vote them out.   that said, a state of emergency does not mean  anything goes . governments are still responsible for illegal actions. if a government ordered random shootings of innocent people in the street that would still be illegal, even in a state of emergency, and any soldier who carried out such an action could be prosecuted. a state of emergency extends what is legal, but does not extend it indefinitely. it might be legal to force the closure of businesses in a state of emergency, but not to kill random people. 	
will summer or humidity kill covid-19  answer will summer or humidity kill covid-19  chances are it will not. it might reduce the transmissibility of the virus due to extreme heat. but we have seen tropical countries like singapore report a good number of cases despite humidity. plus during summers, people generally spend more time indoors and in air-conditioned spaces, where the temperature is low. this can instead spread the virus. since we still do not know how this pandemic will play out in india, practicing social distancing is the best option.	
i came by some cash a year ago, so i put  20,000 in a certificate of deposit which will end this weekend  at about  20.5k . now i am wondering what to do with it. i do not really know much about investing, so i am wondering what the most logical long-term move would be for me right now.   my bank currently has cds from 6 months to 5 years, all at 0.75  interest. but i have heard that investing in stock indexes is low risk over long periods of time. if i were to put this money in an index now  while the market is plummeting  would this be a smart way to start saving for retirement  or should i hold on to the cash and try to buy a rental property  or is there a fourth, smarter option    specific goals  edit   i am specifically looking for a low-risk, low-maintenance option that makes the most sense over a long period time  30 years-ish  . stashing it away until retirement would be my first thought for the money, but i am not sure if it might be smarter to keep it available just in case.  about me:  i am in my 30s, living in the us. i do not own any property. i am currently making below the poverty line, but i am getting by. i have no debt. i have  2k in a savings account. i may be moving across the country for graduate school in a little over a year.  answer if you do not expect to need the money for the next 30  years, the best thing you can do is invest in the stock market.   the return on investment for cds is abysmal. they are only a good choice if you need absolute certainty that your investment will not lose value  or, will not lose value too quickly after adjusting for inflation . real estate is risky, particularly on the small scale. a single stroke of bad luck can wipe out your entire investment. the stock market is also risky, but unlike with real estate, you have got enough money to mitigate that risk by spreading your investment  eg. with a mutual fund, an index fund, or simply buying a wide variety of stocks . expect your investment to lose value in the near future -- the market is way down, but i do not think it is quite hit bottom yet, and long-term fallout from the covid-19 pandemic will keep things unsettled for a year or more.  	
application for visas or entry to a country are often contingent on not having been refused entry by any country at any point in the past. how does this affect someone who was refused entry to a country because the country closed its borders shortly before the traveler arrived there  such that the traveler did not know the border was closed     answer when asked state the reason as:   force majeure due to border closure during coronavirus pandemic   this is an often used  and internationaly known  legal term that expresses that the situation was beyond your control.   such an event should not be held against you.  	
north korea has closed its border to foreign tourists due to the new coronavirus.  i had a tour booked in march, i have been told i will get my deposit back from the tour company if the border is not reopened in time.  but i had flights to beijing, a chinese visa paid for, chinese hotels booked. i only booked all these for my tour to north korea, as that is one of the only ways to enter, do you think there is a case for a claim for my whole trip if north korea does not reopen its borders by my tour   i do not want to really just go to china, if i can claim my flights and hotels in china back i would rather postpone the whole trip, plus i would have to get extra hotels and activities planned for the time i would have been in north korea.  i am not really asking for legal advice, just wondered in general, if any country closes its border, is it valid for an insurance claim   answer just a quick update, my tour was cancelled so i rang my insurance company and they voided my insurance due to travelling to a country that was advised against all but essential travel, even the chinese part of the trip would not have been covered.  luckily swiss air offered a full refund, also my hotels in china were kind enough to issue refunds even though they were none refundable rooms, i am planning to go soon so will still use them to thank them. also the tour company to north korea offered a full refund.  not really an answer to my question, just if anyone else is travelling to china soon and you do not have insurance then try your luck contacting companies if you do not have insurance.   also if you are going to north korea just take out the insurance with the tour company for that leg of the trip, it is quite cheap and through a chinese insurance company which cover north korea.  	
can you catch coronavirus twice  answer a definitive answer is not yet known, but experts say reinfection seems unlikely.	
how can i better take care of myself at home, aside from cleaning  answer having a  conversation with everyone in your household  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/smarter-living/how-you-can-make- your-home-safer.html , particularly children, about what is going on is a good idea to help manage stress and keep everyone at home on the same page. maintaining your mental fitness, in addition to physical fitness, is also important. read a book, play a game, call a friend or just otherwise give yourself a break from the news to take care of your emotional and mental health. open your windows to let in some fresh air. to  improve your indoor air quality  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/climate/climate-pollution- coronavirus-lungs.html , turn on the ventilation hood above your stove and open windows when cooking, if you can. if you smoke or vape, you should try to quit, or at the very least limit second hand smoke in the house by stepping outside  while maintaining social distance . and if you can afford an air purifier, it might be a good investment as well.	
as many flights are cancelled due to covid-19, it can be sometimes difficult to find a flight between a given country becomes available. how can i get notified when a flight between from a given airport to a given country becomes available within the next n days  where n can be defined by the user, e.g. n 7   or otherwise when the soonest available flight changes its date     i have crossposted the question at:   quora   answer assuming you want to fly home  and you should only be trying to fly home , your best bet is the consular staff of your country. for example, various canadian government agencies are tweeting about flights to canada from specific airports. here is a snapshot of the feed of travel.gc.ca:    in addition to following your country  and subsets of it like the  canada in lebanon  and  canada in singapore  accounts you see in the screenshot  you should have registered with your government so they can email, call or text you, and you should probably have called your embassy or consulate for advice about how to get home.   if you are not trying to get home, but are trying to reach a relative or someone else who really needs you, these same sources are the ones that are likely to help you. if you think your travel need is not urgent enough to get an embassy involved, then stop trying to travel. people are desperately trying to get home, to reunite families, to get out while they can. if you have just always wanted to see a particular place, now is not the time.  bottom line: make sure at least one qualified human who is connected to your target country knows you are trying to get there, then start monitoring the heck out of airlines, airports, and those embassies and consulates on all the social media you can think of, and getting yourself on group chats and multi emails and facebook groups, so you will be notified when there is a chance to go. and be ready to go when the chance comes. 	
while school is out, how can i keep my family healthy  answer   watch your child for any signs of illness.  if you see any sign of illness consistent with symptoms of covid-19, particularly fever, cough, or shortness of breath, call your healthcare provider and keep your child at home and away from others as much as possible. follow cdc is guidance on  what to do if you are sick.    watch for signs of stress in your child.  some common changes to watch for include excessive worry or sadness, unhealthy eating or sleeping habits, and difficulty with attention and concentration. for more information, see the  for parents  section on cdc is website, manage anxiety and stress. take time to talk with your child or teen about the covid-19 outbreak. answer questions and share facts about covid-19 in a way that your child or teen can understand. go to cdc is helping children cope with emergencies or talking with children about covid-19 for more information.   teach and reinforce everyday preventive actions.  parents and caretakers play an important role in teaching children to wash their hands. explain that hand washing can keep them healthy and stop the virus from spreading to others. be a good role model--if you wash your hands often, they are more likely to do the same. make handwashing a family activity.   help your child stay active.  encourage your child to play outdoors--it is great for physical and mental health. take a walk with your child or go on a bike ride. use indoor activity breaks  stretch breaks, dance breaks  throughout the day to help your child stay healthy and focused.   help your child stay socially connected.  reach out to friends and family via phone or video chats. write cards or letters to family members they may not be able to visit. some schools and non-profits, such as the collaborative for academic, social, and emotional learningexternal iconexternal icon and the yale center for emotional intelligenceexternal iconexternal icon, have resources for social and emotional learning. check to see if your school has tips and guidelines to help support social and emotional needs of your child.    	
i have not seen articles or information on how governments - behind the scenes or in public - reflect and set up analytics and systematic information collection to prepare for the spread of a new viral pandemic.  what sources can show more information about what politicians think about preparing for future pandemics right now   answer right now, as covid-19 is on-going, they can not do very much to prepare for a hypothetical covid-  . however, once the covid-19 situation has ended, then it would be vital to do a thorough analysis of what worked, and did not work in the covid-19 situation.  this is one of the reasons, why the east-asian countries, such as hong kong or korea have fared so well compared to europe  they could build on first hand experience of the sars and mers outbreaks.  the somewhat sad lesson is that we are smarter only afterwards. any attempts to predict the future, and act accordingly to these predictions is bound to fail at least in part of the cases.  you find plenty of articles in the media, comparing the current, local situation to those in the east asian countries, such as this one from the bbc. whereever, you are from, you probably will be able to find a corresponding article from your local media, at least i have found such articles from german media. 	
i am stuck inside. help  answer stay home to  flatten the curve  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/science/coronavirus-curve- mitigation-infection.html , and do not lose your mind by doing different activities like working your way through the  best 50 movies on netflix right now  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/arts/television/best-movies-on- netflix.html , or by checking out the books on the nightstand you have been ignoring. looking for new reading material  check out this list of  52 books for 52 places  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/28/books/travel- reading-52-books-for-52-places-2020.html  so you can escape to a far away destination without dealing with travel restrictions or risk of illness. be sure to get up and stretch, because  exercise  http://www.nytimes.com/guides/well/how-to-build-muscle  can help burn off pent up energy. here is a  quick guide to an at-home workout  http://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/204-strength-home- workout-1/ac351695049524bfb879/optimized/full.pdf  where the only equipment you need is a resistance band. while you are moving, spend some time disinfecting surfaces in your home to keep everything clean. the c.d.c.  recommends you clean and disinfect  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html  high-contact surfaces, including tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets and sinks every day. and check in with your loved ones. social distancing does not mean disconnecting from those you care about, and older relatives and friends are susceptible to loneliness, which researchers have found  comes with its own set of health hazard  http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/06/health/lonliness- aging-health-effects.html s. so make sure to facetime your parents and grandparents. and if you have done all of those things,  watch this video  http://twitter.com/schwarzenegger/status/1239383795205169152  of arnold schwarzenegger feeding a pony and a donkey in his kitchen.	
what should healthcare professionals and health departments do  answer for recommendations and guidance on persons under investigation  infection control, including personal protective equipment guidance  home care and isolation  and case investigation, see information for healthcare professionals. for information on specimen collection and shipment, see information for laboratories. for information for public health professional on covid-19, see information for public health professionals.	
what are the symptoms and complications that covid-19 can cause  answer current symptoms reported for patients with covid-19 have included mild to severe respiratory illness with fever1, cough, and difficulty breathing. read about covid-19 symptoms.	
is it safe to eat takeout from restaurants  can i get coronavirus through food  answer yes, it is safe to eat takeout.  there is no evidence to suggest coronavirus is transmitted through food, the cdc says. it is mainly spread through respiratory droplets.  even if coronavirus does get into your food, your stomach acid would kill it, said dr. angela rasmussen, a virologist at columbia university.   when you eat any kind of food, whether it be hot or cold, that food is going to go straight down into your stomach, where there is a high acidity, low-ph environment that will inactivate the virus,  she said.  but it is a good idea to disinfect the takeout containers, cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. coronavirus is a respiratory virus, and it is easy to touch your face without realizing it.  if you do not have disinfecting wipes, use your own plates or bowls to serve the food. just make sure to wash your hands after transferring food from the containers.	
are kids more at risk  answer  younger people, thankfully, seem to be insulated to some extent to protect  them  from getting particularly sick from this,  said cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta.  we do not know entirely why.   but while children might have mild to no symptoms with coronavirus, they can still get others sick.   they can still carry the virus in their bodies,  gupta said.  they could potentially still shed the virus and be a source of infection.   like everyone else, children should wash their hands frequently for at least 20 seconds, stay at least 6 feet away from anyone coughing or sneezing, and stop touching their faces - which is a lot harder than it sounds.	
i have a language course booked in two weeks in barcelona and would like to get there either by train or bus  due to  flight shame   from germany in times of the covid-19 outbreak.   going by train would mean traveling via cologne  germany , brussels, paris  that makes me really afraid , on the return journey via paris and frankfurt main  germany . however, there is also a flixbus directly going to barcelona from frankfurt.   though i already booked the train tickets via paris, i could stil get a refund and thereby get most of the money back. :-  so what would you say, is it safer to travel by bus rather than by train    however, i was also wondering whether trains are not equally safe as buses, since i could just stand all the time in a tgv in the floor or just sit on my luggage where there are not so many people   answer it is somewhat hard to answer this one. you obviously concerned, but not enough to forfeit the course and cancel the trip. you are a bit afraid, but not enough so to overcome you  flight shame  and hop on a direct plane.   however, you are afraid enough to consider either spending a 25-hour trip on a flixbus or a 13-hour train trip standing on the corridor. for some reason you are more afraid of paris than cologne or barcelona, and more afraid of trains than buses.  at this point, my honest suggestion is that you do whatever makes you feel most comfortable.   given that you have already decided to travel, and to travel by either train or bus, the choice between those two matters little.  on a train, you will be in a carriage with 120 people. a dozen or so in close proximity to you. in a bus you will be with 60 people. a dozen or so in close proximity to you. there is no evidence that one is significantly riskier than the other.  if you want to minimise your time with people, take a plane or rent a car. 	
i first learned the logistic function in machine learning course, where it is just a function that map a real number to 0 to 1. we can use calculus to get its derivative and use the derivative for some optimization tasks.  later, i learned it in statistic literature where there are log odds and bunch of probabilistic interpretations.   today i am reviewing some differential equation literature, and found the logistic function is a solution for the following system:   y  y 1-y  , and  y 0  0.5 .    so, my question is more like a  chicken and egg  problem: where does the logistic function come from  do we first have the function or the ode   answer i read from strogatz is book that it was originated from modeling the human populations by verhulst in 1838. assume the population size is  n t  , then the per capita growth rate is   dot n t /n t  . by assuming the per capita growth rate descreases linearly with the population size, we can have the logistic equation of following form:    dot n t  rn 1- frac n  k  ,   where  k  is carrying capacity of the environment. from the equation, we can see that when  n  is very small, the population grows approximately exponentially. as  n  grows until half of the capacity, the derivative   dot n  is still increasing but slows down. once  n  passes the half line, the derivative decreases so we can see a bending curve  we can see this actually from coronavirus cases  and the population asymptotically approaches the capacity. up to this point, we observe the properties of a logistic function. intuitively, when  n  is larger the capacity, the population decreases. by further mathematical simplification of the equation, we have an equation like this:    frac df x   dx  f x  1-f x  ,   which has analytical solotion as:   f x   frac e x  e x   c .   with  c 1  we have the logistic function. 	
what is physical activity  answer  lt  -- /  font definitions  / font-face  font-family: cambria math   panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:1  mso-generic-font-family:roman  mso-font-format:other  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:0 0 0 0 0 0   font-face  font-family:calibri  panose-1:2 15 5 2 2 2 4 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-536870145 1073786111 1 0 415 0   font-face  font-family: arial unicode ms   panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 2 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-134238209 -371195905 63 0 4129279 0   /  style definitions  /p.msonormal, li.msonormal, div.msonormal  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-fareast-language:en-us  p.body, li.body, div.body  mso-style-name:body  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   mso-bidi-font-family: arial unicode ms   color:black  border:none  mso-style-textoutline-type:none  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dpiwidth:0pt  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-linecap:flat  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-join:bevel  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-pctmiterlimit:0   mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dash:solid  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-align:center  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-compound:simple  mso-ansi-language:fr  mso-fareast-language:en-us  text-underline:black  .msochpdefault  mso-style-type:export-only  mso-default-props:yes  font-size:10.0pt  mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-ansi-language:en-us  mso-fareast-language:en-us  .msopapdefault  mso-style-type:export-only   page wordsection1  size:612.0pt 792.0pt  margin:70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt  mso-header-margin:36.0pt  mso-footer-margin:36.0pt  mso-paper-source:0  div.wordsection1  page:wordsection1  -- gt physical activity includes all forms of activerecreation, sports participation, cycling and walking, as well as activitiesyou do at work and around the home and garden. it does not have to be exerciseor sport - play, dance, gardening, and even house cleaning and carrying heavyshopping is all part of being physically active.during the covid-19 pandemic, when so many of us arevery restricted in our movements, it is even more important for people of allages and abilities to be as active as possible. even a short break fromsitting, by doing 3-5 minutes of physical movement, such as walking orstretching, will help ease muscle strain, relieve mental tension and improveblood circulation and muscle activity. regular physical activity can also helpto give the day a routine and be a way of staying in contact with family andfriends.	
in the uk, the prime minister has stated    restaurants, pubs and clubs must close   although our wedding venue has a bar, serves food and has a dance floor in the marquee, they have not closed and therefore our insurance is not paying out as the wedding can technically still go ahead.  is the prime minister is closure statement enough to claim on our wedding insurance   answer what do the contracts with your suppliers and the policy with your insurer say   changes in government regulation do not ipso facto relieve parties of the obligations under a contract under common  english  law. contracts are allowed to allocate the risk of force majeure  and indeed, to define it because it has no common law meaning  but if they do not, then each party bears their own risk and if they fail to honour their obligations they are in breach of contract.   common law does have the doctrine of frustration, however, that is much narrower and must result in the inability of the contract to be completed at all.  and then there are consumer rights which may apply.  when the dust settles, we are likely to see a lot of litigation around force majeure.  your venue appears to be complying with both the law and their obligations under the contract so you have no breach of contract claim against them and no trigger for the insurance policy. if you choose to cancel, then you broke the contract.  importantly, the position is reversed in civil law jurisdictions - a party unable to fulfil their obligations under a contract is not in breach. 	
will retired seniors also get stimulus checks    answer so long as they are not listed as a dependent for someone else  and, as retirees, fall within the income thresholds , yes, they should receive a check.	
while school is out, will kids have access to meals  answer check with your school on plans to continue meal services during the school dismissal. many schools are keeping school facilities open to allow families to pick up meals or are providing grab-and-go meals at a central location.	
like a lot of amateurs, i would like to see how well the evolution of covid-19 is predictable. so i imported the data  here, for italy  and fitted a logistic curve. then i added the 90  and 95  confidence bounds. i got the following plot:    great. the next day, i updated my plot with the latest data and realized that the estimation was had been quite optimistic and the asymptote is now much increased  same scale in both pictures :    questions i understand that if the logistic model had been good, the next point should have been in the confidence range with a probability of 90   or 95  . can i conclude that the logistic model is not a good model here  are there some standard procedures to assess the validity of the prediction by taking into account the uncertainty on the model   also, the difference between the two asymptotes gives me an indication of the precision of the prediction  it is not off by 1 or by 10 5 but by about 500 deaths . is there some classic methods to take this into account   edit 21/03/2020: clarification in response to hakan is answer  the model i fitted is     dfrac c  1   a e  -b x     and with  a 514434 ,  b -0.276  and  c 5568 . of course, this model is the same as  hakanc is, with a different parametrization  e.g. his  k  corresponds to my  c  . the corresponding covariance matrix is    begin bmatrix  1.1 times 10  10  amp  641  amp  -2.5 times 10 7     star  amp  3.8 times 10  -5   amp  -1.6    star  amp   star  amp  80 times 10 3  end bmatrix     i believe the low sensitivity to  c     k   is described by the   3,3   component of the covariance matrix,   sigma  sqrt 80 times 10 3  approx 280 . so though i understand  and agree with  the argument of low sensitivity, i believe it is already included in the  confidence band .  answer when working with mathematical models, it is always good to check the assumptions of the model. the logistic function is often used when modelling population growth, and specifically where the rate of reproduction is proportional to both the existing population and the amount of available resources, all else being equal. letting  p  represent population size, the differential equation is        displaystyle   frac  dp  dt   rp cdot  left 1-  frac  p  k   right ,     where the constant  r  defines the growth rate and  k  is the carrying capacity, see the link for more details. the solution, letting  p 0  be the initial population, is    p t    frac  kp  0 e  rt   k p  0  left e  rt -1 right       thus, this model would be appropriate if italy did nothing to mitigate the spread of the virus, but they are in fact using quarantine. the effect of wrong modelling assumptions would be that if you cross-validated the fitted model, you would get poor results.   additionally, since the shape of the logistic function is     and in your data, it does not seem to include the part where the curve flattens out, i would suspect that the parameter describing that phenomenon,  k , would have a high variance from your estimation procedure. an intuitive explanation for this can be done by plotting the function for different  k  and constant  r :    in this figure, if there is only data for  t  between 0 and 1 would not reveal so much information on  k , other than if  k  is around 10, compared to  k  gt  100 . more formally, assuming you are doing maximum likelihood estimation, you can look at the eigenvalues of the hessian of the corresponding likelihood function, to see if optimization problem is well conditioned.  	
it is recommended to regularly wash hands with soap to slow the spread of covid-19. however regularly washing with soap can be harmful to the skin. soap-free cleansers such as qv wash are frequently used in place of soap by those with dermatological conditions.  how effective are soap-free cleansers are at slowing the spread of covid-19   answer you need a molecule that disrupts the lipid layer of the virus to expose its rna, and deactivate it.   until the manufacturer of qv wash can confirm that it is capable of inactivating viruses, in particular the sars2-ncov-19 virus, then you should assume it will not work.    when you wash your hands with soap and water, you surround any microorganisms on your skin with soap molecules. the hydrophobic tails of the free-floating soap molecules attempt to evade water  in the process, they wedge themselves into the lipid envelopes of certain microbes and viruses, prying them apart.     they act like crowbars and destabilize the whole system,  said prof. pall thordarson, acting head of chemistry at the university of new south wales. essential proteins spill from the ruptured membranes into the surrounding water, killing the bacteria and rendering the viruses useless.   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/health/soap-coronavirus-handwashing-germs.html 	
what can i do if my loved one suspects they have coronavirus  answer do not visit family members with suspected illness - keep up with them virtually.  if that loved one lives with you, limit contact with them and avoid using the same bathroom or bedroom, the cdc advises.  if they have been diagnosed, they may be able to recover at home in isolation. separate yourself as much as possible from your infected family member and keep animals away, too. continue to use separate restrooms and regularly disinfect them with epa-approved products.  stock up on groceries and household supplies for them while they can not travel outside and minimize trips to stores. wash your hands frequently and avoid sharing personal items with the infected person.  if you suspect you are developing symptoms, stay home and call your physician.	
it looks like i may completely write a paper while in coronavirus-related quarantine. would it be appropriate to thank my local government in the acknowledgements  if i am honest with myself, i do not think i would have been able to do this with such focus and efficiency if all other aspects of my life had not been suddenly shut down.  people often acknowledge visits to other institutions, which seem to serve a similar purpose, hence why i pose the question seriously.  edit: i am also in an at-risk group, and the government-mandated quarantine is kind of saving my life, so there is also that.  answer i decided to elevate my comment to an answer.    when this is all over, and most of your readers will probably know multiple people who died during the crisis, this would not be a good  look .   this is a global crisis that is only just beginning. by the time the dust settles, millions may have died from the virus alone. it would be a rare reader who does not personally know someone affected. more will have died because of how overwhelmed the global healthcare system is.   even more will be affected by the economic fallout.  viral infections can have lifelong consequences, even if you live.   if you are in a medical field, many of your readers will be caregivers who were worked to the bone for months, and had to make impossible triage decisions.   for your readers, researchers are forced to halt research, often at great expense. many studies cannot be paused for three months and picked up at the same place.   and you are proposing to put in your acknowledgements  gee i got so much done while quarantined   this is offensive at best, and obscene at worst. we in universities are extremely lucky that our pay will most likely not be stopped, and we can just pick up and work from home. that is not happening for most of the nation.   frankly, i would be ashamed to be your co-author, and if you were in my field, put you on blast across every channel i knew how. do not do this. 	
what does istay at home  mean  answer authorities in different states have used different phrases while asking people to stay home. generally, it means you should limit trips outside except for essential needs. you can still go for walks and exercise, but do it in a way that keeps you several feet away from other people. you can still go to the grocery store, but try to go once a week instead of more frequently. and wash your hands when you come back inside.	
how did coronavirus start  answer the first case of coronavirus was detected in the chinese city of wuhan on december 12, 2019.  the virus is first thought to have originated from the city is huanan seafood wholesale market.	
i am an electronics engineer. i was thinking about how to detect the presence of covid-19:   obtain the sample. increment image/sample,  i need the real size to determine increment/magnification  digital image processing -- detect presence using artificial intelligence or recognition.   what is the approximate size of covid-19  is there a real image of covid-19   answer   2019-ncov also has enveloped virions that measure approximately 50-200 nm in diameter  with a single positive-sense rna genome.    epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in wuhan, china: a descriptive study, the lancet  2020   	
can a full-head helmet with the visor closed prevent getting infected by the corona virus during a casual interaction with a carrier   for example, when buying something at a store or discussing something with someone for 10-15 minutes.  how does it compare with the protection provided by a standard face mask  that can be purchased at a pharmacy    answer i think it is a great idea. it protects your eyes from respiratory droplets and keeps you from touching your face. i do not know how well it would work from keeping droplet from reaching your mouth, but probably pretty well, especially if you used it with an n95 respirator. it might be a little shocking/intimidating to people, so i would only use it in extremely infected areas.  	
i am a 67 years old canadian citizen who came to us to visit my son on feb 29th, 2020. can not go back due to covid19, how can i get insulin   answer you can get insulin without a prescription in usa. however, since it will not be the kind you are accustomed to, you should get a doctor is advice.  http://insulinnation.com/treatment/medicine-drugs/insulin-over-counter/ 	
are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure covid-19  answer while some western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of covid-19, there is no evidence that current medicine can prevent or cure the disease. who does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for covid-19. however, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both western and traditional medicines. who will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings are available.	
is it safe to get groceries during senior shopping hour  answer acknowledging that older adults and persons with underlying health conditionsare more susceptible to covid-19, a growing number of stores are  dedicatingtime or openingearlier  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2020/03/17/coronavirus-shopping-stores-introduce-time-for-vulnerable-elderly-pregnant/5074064002/  for seniorshoppers and other at-risk groups.but elliott says she does not advise it.  that gives a false sense ofsecurity,  she said.  by encouraging older people with chronic diseases to goout at a dedicated time, you are still exposing them to a bunch of otherpeople, and if one person in that crowd is infected, then the virus willspread. elliott said she would rather see stores limiting the number of people who canenter during a given time period so that there are fewer people in the store.she also encourages healthy people to do the shopping.	
how do i prepare my children in case of covid-19 outbreak in our community  answer outbreaks can be stressful for adults and children. talk with your children about the outbreak, try to stay calm, and reassure them that they are safe. if appropriate, explain to them that most illness from covid-19 seems to be mild. children respond differently to stressful situations than adults. cdc offers resources to help talk with children about covid-19.	
i hear it is only dangerous in older people and those with compromised immune systems.   answer according to the most recent report by the center for disease control and prevention  cdc , the number of hospitalizations and deaths were greatest among those between 65 - 74. yet 20  of those hospitalized for severe symptoms of covid-19 were between the ages of 20-44 years. 	
everywhere in the news we hear about numbers of corona-virus infections, deaths and recoveries.  in lots of the publications the numbers  especially the infections  are compared with previous days. mostly the presented numbers are  growth  of new infections in per cent and the total number of infections so far. then the numbers of different countries are shown.   i tried to get something out of these numbers  of infections  and realized that some important information is not told: the amount of tests done. and even further, who is tested  which criteria  and this varies a lot between countries. then there is the accuracy of tests.   the number and kind of tests done everyday change as well as more capacity is created or less capacity is available due to overloads or work restrictions.  i told myself the amount of deaths, as horrible as it sounds, is a good indicator of stabilization or regression. but no, people are not effected the same way regarding their previous medical condition. at some point in time, people at risk will  disappear   again sorry for the word-choice .  i have the feeling that there so many variables and factors we are not able to gather regarding this pandemic  at least currently  that statistics are at their limit. announced trends are most likely wrong.   how sure can we be about statistics in the current situation  are trends viable  what can be compared what not  is all current information foundationless   answer do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good  many of the issues you have raised are perfectly reasonable concerns. having said that, it is important to distinguish between cases where reported data is wrong, versus cases where reported data is correct, but is limited in its usage due to the omission of other relevant information. the latter case is really quite ubiquitous in statistical analysis, since it is very rare that we have all the data we would ideally like to have. in such circumstances, it is also important not to make the perfect the enemy of the good by presuming that the absence of a comprehensive dataset on every variable we would like to know about precludes any reasonable inferences being made from the data we have.  the main comprehensive public dataset we have available for the covid-19 virus is the data held and updated by the john hopkins coronavirus resource centre at john hopkins university. this is the repository of data that is being used for the vast majority of media reports and data visualisations on the spread of covid-19. the database has data on confirmed infections, recoveries, and deaths, plus gis data on where these occurred. the data is sourced from the who and various national health departments, and it is being updated frequently.  it is certainly true that there are a lot of other things we would ideally like to have data about, to assist in understanding the path and severity of the virus. as you have suggested, it would be wonderful if we could also obtaina comprehensive dataset on all the tests that have actually been conducted  including the negative results , and the characteristics of all the affected patients, including their age, sex, and health factors. at this early stage it is probably overly ambitious to expect all of this data to have been collected and collated, but hopefully the various health departments of the world will eventually be able to bring some of this data together. health departments cannot legally disclose health information on particular patients in a way that would make them identifiable, so it is an extremely complex task to collate this type of data if the goal is to make it available for public analysis. no doubt there will be some efforts to obtain and collate more detailed data, but it will be a difficult task.  when interpreting limited data, it is desirable to describe that data in a way that makes it clear how it was collected, and this collection mechanism forms a caveat on analysis. thus, we can refer to the reported numbers of infections, recoveries, deaths, etc., from each of the reporting countries, while noting that there may be disparities from these figures to the actual true numbers. most health departments around the world are set up so that they can obtain these figures with reasonable accuracy, so that large diparities between reported figures and the true values are unlikely, except in the case of countries that make a deliberate effort to suppress this information. notwithstanding the lack of the ideal data you would like, from the reported data there are certainly some things that we can reasonably infer. for most countries, the data is likely to be a reasonably representation of the number of infected, recovered, and dead patients out of those who have been properly tested.  of course, i take some of the data, such as the recent numbers from china, with a large degree of scepticism.  it is also likely that there are other infected and recovered people who have not been tested, and who therefore do not form part of the reported statistics. even so, this data gives us a pretty good look at growth rates for the infection in various cities and countries around the world, which allows us to see where the virus has progresssed most rapidly, and where it has been relatively contained. these numbers also allow some attempt at extrapolation, which allows health authorities to make predictions on the likely number of cases at future dates, and the health burden this will create in different places.  your question appears to assert that most of these trends are likely to be  wrong  due to the absence of data on other factors such as total testing and patient health. in my view, that is not the correct way to look at it. rather, the reported trends may be correct, in the limited descriptive sense, but there may still be underlying non-reported factors that would give reason to anticipate future changes in those trends. personally, i am extremely impressed at how rapidly these various organisations have coordinated a large data collation and made public online platforms reporting on the infection and updating it frequently. i can log on every day and see updated graphical information showing the progression of the infection in virtually any city or country in the world  the data may not be perfect, but i would think it would bear enough of a resemblance to reality to be valuable information. i think the effort is quite amazing, and it far past what we could do even ten years ago. 	
i have heard that taking drugs like ibuprofen to ease covid-19 symptoms could actually worsen the progress of the illness. is that true  answer the world health organization and many infectious disease experts say that there is no good scientific evidence establishing a link between ibuprofen and worsening of covid-19. the notion that such a link exists was sparked last weekend when a tweet by the french health minister warned people not to take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -- a category of pain relievers and fever reducers that includes ibuprofen -- because, he said, some french covid-19 patients had experienced serious side effects. the warning was also included in a bulletin from the french health ministry, which counseled that patients should instead use acetaminophen, the generic name for tylenol. but experts say that warning is not based on data.  based on currently available information, who does not recommend against the use of ibuprofen,  the who stated on its official twitter account, adding,   we are also consulting with physicians treating covid-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative effects of ibuprofen, beyond the usual known side effects that limit its use in certain populations.  dr. angela rogers, a pulmonologist at the stanford university medical center and chair of its intensive care unit is covid-19 task force, notes that tylenol is the go-to medication for patients who are sick enough to be hospitalized for any infection. that is because these patients are at higher risk of damage to internal organs, including kidneys. and kidney damage can be a side effect of ibuprofen for some patients who use it long-term in higher doses, says rogers, whose research focuses on the kind of acute respiratory distress experienced by the most severe covid-19 cases. tylenol, like any medicine, is not risk-free either  rogers notes that acetaminophen can cause serious liver damage in high doses. in low doses, though, she says, tylenol is  very effective  for reducing fever and  very safe. 	
i collected the latest data on the coronavirus from johns hopkins university as shown and fitted different curves to this data to model the relationship between the number of confirmed patients  p  who are/were infected as function of time  t  taking 20-jan-20 as day 1.      as opposed to applying the standard sir and seir i tried out simple curve fitting to see the general trend. the curve fitting software i used has well known models form different branches of science as well as we could build our own custom models which i did as shown in the image below. the score against the name of a model gives how well a model fits this data. the higher the score, the better the fit and the maximum possible score is 1000. although we have data only for 18 days  as of 7-feb 2 am gmt  one model always kept appearing at top as the best fit and this was the vapor pressure model. after checking for various boundary conditions, i rejected many of models but i could not find any immediately reason to reject the vapor pressure model. similarly when i modeled the number of reported deaths against time, the vapor pressure model once again gave the best fit which for which i could not find any obvious reasons to reject.    so i did some research on the vapor pressure model.  basic concept of vapor pressure because the molecules of a liquid  l  are in constant motion and possess kinetic energies, at any moment some fraction of them has enough energy to escape from the surface of the liquid to enter the gas phase. this process, called evaporation, generates a vapor pressure  p l  above the liquid. molecules in the gas phase can collide with the liquid surface and reenter the liquid via condensation. eventually, a steady state is reached in which the number of molecules evaporating and condensing per unit time is the same, and the system is in a state of dynamic equilibrium. under these conditions, a liquid exhibits a characteristic equilibrium vapor pressure that depends only on the temperature  t l . volatile liquids are liquids with high vapor pressures, which tend to evaporate readily from an open container  nonvolatile liquids have low vapor pressures. when the vapor pressure equals the external pressure, bubbles of vapor form within the liquid, and it boils. we can express the nonlinear relationship between vapor pressure and temperature as an almost linear relationship using the antoine equation.      p l   exp big a    frac b  t l    c log t l big      next i did some research what is known about how the coronavirus spreads and if it is related to liquids. here is what i found.     how coronavirus spreads: when an infected person coughs or sneezes, they shed droplets of saliva, mucus, or other bodily fluids. if any of those droplets fall on you--or if you touch them and then, say, touch your face--you can become infected as well. hospital for communicable diseases define exposure as being within six feet of an infected person for 10 minutes or longer. time and distance matters.   the coronavirus spreads when it escapes from an infected person through microscopic droplets of liquid carrying the virus through air. i wonder this has anything to do with why the vapor pressure model keeps coming on the top as the best fit even though there is no apparent pressure or temperature as in the vapor pressure equation and i cannot see how they could be elated. may be all this just a mere coincidence.     as a bad scientist but a concerned human, i thought i must report this  observation in case there is anything worth in it.   question: given this limited data what can we infer about the corona virus growth rate and how can we reject the vapor pressure model as a mere spurious correlation.  note 1: i am well aware of spurious correlation. but with only 3 weeks of data, we many not be able to detect a different trend this early. hence i am reporting the best fit regardless.  answer  if all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.  the dataset you have is small, possibly underrepresented, and of unknown quality, since it is argued that many cases could have not been diagnosed. you observe an exponential growth, a common phenomena in many natural and artificial processes. the curve fits well, but i would bet that other similar curves would also fit well.  notice that the the antoine equation mentioned by you, is a very flexible one, since it can account for constant    alpha  , exponential   b/t l  , and linear   c log t l   growth curves. this makes it easy to fit to many datasets.  moreover, with this kind of data, it may be harder to model it at early stages. notice that you could fit a linear growth model to the earliest period. later, quadratic may fit just fine. later, exponential would fit better, where the exact rate may be hard to catch, since by definition  the more it grows, then the more it grows , and it may easy speed up quite rapidly. it may be easy to fit some curve to such data, but the best test of it, would be a test of time, i.e. validating it on future data.  	
0 introduction  this is my third attempt in tuning a good prediction sird model for the covid-19 outbreak. the model in question is the following:    tag 12  begin cases  s  t  amp  s  t-1 - alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n      i  t  amp  i  t-1   alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n - beta i  t-1 - gamma i  t-1     r  t  amp  r  t-1   beta i  t-1     d  t  amp  d  t-1   gamma i  t-1      end cases   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots      0.1 first attempt  in my first try i have used for the estimation of the parameters   alpha,  beta,  gamma  a very simple strategy by searching the least squares parameters that minimize the quadratic cost of the 1-step prediction along all the observation horizon. the complete dissertation of this problem is here  note: in this thread i will use the same notations that i have used in the cited thread . the estimation problem is very easy to resolve, but leads to a result with very poor performances.    0.2 second attempt  as sextus empiricus suggests to me, using the 1-step prediction, i.e.    tag 13  hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta   y  t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots   is not a good idea because, once one has found the parameters, during the simulation phase the model haves to feedback the proper previous predictions. this means, in principle, that the right way to tune the parameters   theta  is to minimize some suitable cost function of the prediction errors generated by a  batch  predictor of the form    tag 14  hat y  t  theta   hat varphi  hat y   t-1    theta    hat y   t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots   where    tag 15  hat varphi  hat y   t-1    triangleq  begin bmatrix   - frac  hat s   t-1  hat i   t-1   n   amp  0  amp  0       phantom -  frac  hat s   t-1  hat i   t-1   n   amp  - hat i   t-1   amp  - hat i   t-1       0  amp   phantom -  hat i   t-1   amp  0     0  amp  0  amp   phantom -  hat i   t-1   end bmatrix   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots   and   hat s   t-1 ,  hat i   t-1   are predictions  and not observed values  generated by the model. as a consequence, the new estimation problem     tag 16  theta  text ls  triangleq  arg min   theta  in  mathbb r 3   v t   theta    with the same quadratic cost  v t  theta  triangleq  frac 1  2  sum   t 0  t   y t- hat y  t  theta     2  is not easy anymore because now the considered model   14   is not linear in his parameter   theta .  to resolve   16  , under the suggestion sextus empiricus, i have chosen a numerical approach. more precisely, i have used a simple gradient descent equipped with armijo is adaptive learning rate / step update, with a simple finite-difference approximation of the gradient. the optimization works pretty well, but from the starting guess   theta   text ls ,0  0  converges to a parameter   theta   text ls , infty   with a non-zero cost that does not satisfies me in the final simulation phase.  i have tried several different optimizations by using randomly different initializations   theta   text ls ,0    like a multistart global optimization policy  with even worse results.     0.3 third attempt  i am quite sure that the optimizer works well, so i believe that to improve the performance of the final simulator it is necessary to increase the expressivity of the model   12  . to make a step ahead towards an acceptable solution, under the observations of sextus empiricus, now i want make an attempt where i increase the difficult of the estimation problem by relaxing the time-invariance hypothesis of the parameters. thus, now i consider this more complicated model     tag 17  begin cases  s  t  amp  s  t-1 - alpha t frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n      i  t  amp  i  t-1   alpha t frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n - beta t i  t-1 - gamma t i  t-1     r  t  amp  r  t-1   beta t i  t-1     d  t  amp  d  t-1   gamma t i  t-1      end cases   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots   the actual  dynamic  estimation problem can be solved by using a kalman filter.  note: as mentioned by sextus empiricus, another possible approach to the problem is to tune the parameters by using the explicit solution of the sird model. i do not want follow this way because, as a student in control system engineering, i am interested in learn how to identify generic dynamical systems in their implicit state-space representations. the sird problem is a  toy example  that i am trying to resolve better as possible in my quarantine free-time.   1 kalman filtering  1.1 dynamic system model  consider the following linear, time-variant and autonomous state-space model for a dynamic system     tag 18  begin cases  x  t 1   amp   a t x t w t    y t  amp   c t x t v t  end cases  qquad  text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots   where  x  in  mathbb r  n  is the state vector,  y  in  mathbb r  p  is the output vector of the system and the parameters  a in  mathbb r   n  times n   and  c  in  mathbb r   p  times n   are matrices. the signals  w in  mathbb r  n  and  v in  mathbb r  p  are white noises characterized respectively by null mean values and covariances  q in  mathbb r   n  times n   and  r in  mathbb r   p  times p  , i.e.    begin align  w t  amp    text wn  0,q t     v t  amp    text wn  0,r t   end align  qquad  text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots  tag 19       1.2 kalman filter definition   the kalman filter is another dynamic system that estimates dynamically the state of the system   18   by watching the model   18   and a dataset  d triangleq  y 0, y 1, y 2,  dots    of observed outputs. the estimation process is a recursion starting from the initial state  x 0 , that is unknown and modelled as a random variable with mean value   hat x 0  in  mathbb r  n  and covariance  p 0  in  mathbb r   n  times n  , i.e.    tag 20  x 0  sim   hat x  0, p 0    at every time instant  t 1,2,3, dots  the recursion is splitted in two different steps:   correction: the filter computes the estimate   hat x   t t   of the state  x t  by considering all the observed past values  y 0,y 1,  dots, y  t-1  , summarized in a predicted estimate   hat x   t t-1  , and the actual observation  y t . such estimate   hat x   t t   is characterized by the covariance  p  t t     prediction: the filter computes the estimate   hat x   t 1 t   of the state  x  t 1   by considering the first equation of the model   18  . such estimate   hat x   t 1 t   is characterized by the covariance  p  t 1 t  .    the kalman filter algorithm is the following    boxed  begin align    text for  quad  amp t 1,2,3, dots :    amp e t  triangleq y t - c t  hat x   t t-1      amp s t  triangleq c t p  t t-1 c t  r t     amp l t  triangleq p  t t-1 c t  s t   -1      amp  text 1  correction     amp  hat x   t t   triangleq  hat x   t t-1  l t e t     amp p  t t   triangleq  i-l t c t p  t t-1  i-l t c t   l t r t l t     amp  text 2  prediction     amp  hat x   t 1 t   triangleq a t  hat x   t t     amp p  t 1 t   triangleq a t p  t t a t   q t  end align   tag 21    note: if  x 0 ,  w t ,  v  tau , are gaussians and incorrelated for all the possible choices of  t,  tau  then at every time istant  t  the estimate   hat x   t t   is by definition the mmse estimate of the state  x t , so the kalman filter finds the optimal estimation of the state  x t .  note: the signal  e t  is called innovation and it is the prediction error of the output of the system   18    since the predicted output generated by the kalman filter is   hat y   t t-1  c t  hat x   t t-1   . here the matrix  s t  is the covariance of the innovation  and not the number of susceptibles at time  t , i hope that it is clear from the context when i am talking about the innovation covariance or the number of susceptibles . the matrix  l t  is called correction gain since it is used to define the corrected estimate   hat x   t t  . the matrix  i  is an identity matrix  n  times n .  note: the initialization is   hat x   1 0  triangleq  hat x  0 ,  p  1 0   triangleq p 0 .    1.3 application to the sird estimation problem: static estimation  before to jump in to the more general problem that involves the model   17  , i want to use the kalman filter to make a more simpler  static  estimation of the parameters. in order to use the kalman filter, the idea is to define the following non-linear, time-variant, static system    begin cases x  t 1   amp  x t w t    y t  amp  h t x t  v t end cases  qquad  text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots  tag 22    where    x t  triangleq  begin bmatrix    alpha t       beta t       gamma t      end bmatrix   qquad  y t  triangleq  begin bmatrix   s t      i t      r t      d t   end bmatrix   qquad  h t x t   triangleq  begin bmatrix    s   t-1 - frac  s   t-1  i   t-1   n  alpha t       i   t-1 - i   t-1  beta t- i  t gamma t  frac  s   t-1  i   t-1   n  alpha t       r   t-1   i   t-1  beta t       d   t-1   i   t-1  gamma t   end bmatrix      text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots  tag 23     the system   22   is not linear, so the idea to deal with this problem is to consider a simple linearization around the estimate   hat x   t t-1  of the output equation  like in an extended kalman filter .    y t  approx h t  hat x   t t-1    frac  partial h t   partial x t  bigg   x t  hat x   t t-1   x t- hat x   t t-1   v t  tag 24    by defining the new coordinates    tilde y  t  triangleq y t-h t  hat x   t t-1    qquad  tilde x  t  triangleq x t - hat x   t t-1   tag 25    and the time-variant matrix   c t  triangleq  frac  partial h t   partial x t  bigg   x t  hat x   t t-1    begin bmatrix   - frac  hat s   t-1  hat i   t-1   n   amp  0  amp  0       phantom -  frac  hat s   t-1  hat i   t-1   n   amp  - hat i   t-1   amp  - hat i   t-1       0  amp   phantom -  hat i   t-1   amp  0     0  amp  0  amp   phantom -  hat i   t-1   end bmatrix   tag 26    the system   22   is approximated by the linear system    begin cases  tilde x   t 1   amp   tilde x  t w t     tilde y  t  amp  c t  tilde x  t v t end cases  qquad  text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots  tag 27    at this point it is possible to apply the kalman filter   21   to get an estimation for the parameters   alpha,  beta,  gamma .    1.4 application to the sird estimation problem: dynamic estimation  in order to take into account the time dependency of the parameters it is sufficient to modify the first equation of the system   22   in a suitable way that reflects approximately the real dynamic of the parameters    begin cases x  t 1   amp  f t x t  w t    y t  amp  h t x t  v t end cases  qquad  text for   , , t 0,1,2, dots  tag 28    in other words, the dynamic of the parameters   alpha t,  beta t, gamma t  is described by the motion model  f t x t  . to get an estimate of theese parameters it is possible to use an extended kalman filter like in the previous section 1.3.     2 my questions  before to writing down some code to get experimental responses, i would like to have some suggestions about the previous dissertation. i have also two questions.   i am not sure that  c t  is well defined. let is assume that his definition   26   is correct. since the prediction model is   14  , that is a dynamic model, the quantities   hat s   t-1   and   hat i   t-1   are functions of all the previous predictions   hat y  0   theta  hat x   t t-1  , hat y  1   theta  hat x   t t-1  ,  dots,  hat y   t-2    theta  hat x   t t-1   . this means that at every time step the computational burden to get  c t  increase because it requires the simulation with the actual parameter   theta  hat x   t t-1   of the system   12   up to time  t-2   that is increasing . it is possible to define a more efficient recursive formula to define  c t   how can we define a reasonable motion model  f t x t   that can take into account the observations made by sextus empiricus in the reply in my first thread    answer nice write-up. i think eq 23 is not quite correct though. the observation  y t  should be a function of the state  x t  and noise  v t , like you said in eq 22  y t   h x t    v t .  the issue with eq 23 is that  y t  depends on  y  t-1  . this would break the markov assumption that  x t  is a sufficient state, which is foundational to the kalman filter formulation.  i think the correct approach is to use    x t :   begin bmatrix  s t    i t    r t    d t     alpha t     beta t     gamma t  end bmatrix      this would be considered  augmenting the state   sird  with the parameters    alpha ,  beta ,  gamma   to do a  joint-state-parameter  estimation.  your dynamic would be    x  t 1    begin bmatrix    s   t - frac  s   t  i   t   n  alpha t       i   t - i   t  beta t- i  t gamma t  frac  s   t  i   t   n  alpha t       r   t   i   t  beta t       d   t   i   t  gamma t    f  alpha x t   f  beta x t     f  gamma x t   end bmatrix    w t     you can treat the sird part of the dynamic as deterministic if you so desire by setting its entries of the covariance  q t of  w t  to  0 , though that places all the uncertainty on the initial condition and parameters, which i do not think accurately reflects reality - the sird model is not perfect even with best-fit parameters.  your observation model would be the actual data, which we would consider to be measurements of the sird part of the state, corrupted by noise  which you can remove by making its covariance  r t  approx 0  if you think the sird records are perfect .    y t    begin bmatrix  s t    i t    r t    d t  end bmatrix    v t     as for what you should design for  f  alpha x t   and the other parameter dynamics, i think a random walk is fine  i.e.  f  alpha x t     alpha t  so all the movement is due to the   alpha -component of  w t  . but really i think designing a more sophisticated structure for that is a matter of studying epidemiology more. by creating a structured dynamic for the parameters, you are essentially making a more detailed model than what sird alone captures. such an advanced design should probably be rooted in hard science, else it just becomes excess model capacity ripe for overfitting / poor generalization.  in other words, if you want a model for how the parameters would move, you should come up with an explanation / mechanism for why they would move. what do these parameters mean - what dynamical factors would influence them   by the way, the selection of the noise covariances is pretty critical to the usefulness of the kalman filter. if you are using them as tuning knobs rather than estimating them from data, you might as well just go back to your second approach  nonlinear regression of a multi-step predictor  and just use gauss-newton is method instead of gradient descent for optimization. the extended kalman filter is essentially a covariance-weighted recursive application of gauss-newton least-squares. 	
with travel restricted by the covid-19 pandemic, many academics are organizing online seminars and conferences as a substitute for regular in-person university seminars, colloquia, and research conferences.   in real life, seminars are usually open to anyone who wants to drop in, and every attendee can be seen and heard and may ask questions. so an obvious approach is to organize the event using video meeting software such as zoom, and simply post the link on a public website so that any interested person can participate. however, this also opens the event to  zoom bombers , random people who just want to disrupt the proceedings with annoying or offensive video / audio / text chat - such abuse has unfortunately become very common in public zoom meetings.  what best practices exist to keep such an event as open as possible to legitimate participants, and let them interact with each other and the speaker in a reasonable way, while reducing the risk of disruption and abuse   what are the pros and cons of these strategies   strategies could be general, or involve specific features of certain software.  some strategies i have thought of, and their drawbacks:   create a password for the meeting. then the question is, to whom should the organizer give the password  if they only give it to people they know, it excludes people who might be interested but whom they happen not to know. if they distribute it to large mailing lists of interested academics, it raises the chance that it will fall into the wrong hands. offer to share the password by email upon request. this requires extra time from the organizer to respond to those emails, and to manually verify the credentials of each requester. require a nominal registration fee, as real-life conferences often do. this requires setting up an online payment system, which can be a lot of work, and may exclude people who are only casually interested, or who do not have funding, or who work in less wealthy parts of the world. it may also involve the organizer in a lot of bureaucracy with their university as to how the fees will be managed and spent. use a  waiting room  feature, where participants must be approved immediately before joining. however, as far as i know, the host only sees the participant is name. if they see an unfamiliar name, how can they tell whether it is a troll, or a legitimate researcher whom they just happen not to know  conversely, i do not think there is anything to stop a troll from masquerading under the name of a famous academic.   i am wondering if people have thought of better solutions, that are specifically appropriate to academia. such strategies might take advantage of specific features of the academic community, e.g. to authenticate genuine researchers  .edu addresses  accounts on preprint servers  orcid ids  . answers could also address the pros and cons of such strategies as they apply to academia in particular, and how well they fit with people is existing expectations for academic conferences.  answer how about using something other than zoom  other softwares support features that can help with this. moreover there are some serious security and privacy concerns about zoom  see e.g. this statement by the fbi and this investigation by the ny attorney general  bruce schneier has written an overview of the concerns here .  in our department we use bigbluebutton  website, wikipedia  for our classrooms and seminars. it is a completely open-source and free web conferencing system. there are a few services out there that host servers but they are completely overloaded at the moment. i would say your best bet would be to get your it services to host a server for your department. with bbb by default new users do not have their webcams activated, and you can prevent them from doing so. you can even prevent them from using their microphone and require them to virtually  raise their hand  before a moderator allows them to speak. that should cut down a lot of the abuse. you can also set up the service so that an account is required before accessing the meeting. unless the abuser is very dedicated, they probably will not bother creating dozens of accounts to continue bothering people after being kicked out, i hope.  also, something obvious: many abusers are specifically targeting zoom and going into random zoom meetings. unless you have somehow attracted abusers who are specifically targeting you, if you use something else  especially something hosted by your own department , you probably will not have any problems.  note: i am only recommending bbb because that is what we use at our department, but there are other services out there. i know another department has set up something called  panopto  for example, and another something called  classilio  - you will have to look that up, i do not know much about it. for informal meetings we use jitsi but it does not seem adequate for hosting a seminar. but in any case, if a software does not meet your requirements, you should definitely look into switching to something else, especially with the privacy concerns... 	
i have gone sale agreed  note:  sale agreed  means the sale has been agreed in principle - no contracts have been signed, no non-refundable deposits have been made etc.  on a house. the market i am currently in was extremely competitive, houses were all generally going for significantly more than their asking price, as mine did.  i have nearly everything ready - loan arranged, survey of the house completed, solicitor ready to sign everything.  now with covid, a recession is more than likely coming our way.  furthermore, with lock-downs in place - the seller is extremely unlikely to find an alternative buyer in the near future  it is an executor sale if that makes any difference .  i was thinking of trying to put some pressure onto the seller to lower the agreed price.  while i do not want to lose the house  and the money we have spent so far on legal etc. , i would also like to take advantage of potentially lower mortgage repayments.  is it a bad idea to put this to the estate agent and be forthright about exactly why i am asking to lower the price  is there a  reasonable  amount to lower the purchase price by   edit  my intention here is not to  screw  the seller as several commentators assume that i am trying to do.  at the end of the day, i am a first time buyer who has effectively agreed to buy a house at  peak  economic health. within a couple of weeks of this agreement, economic impacts of covid-19 were already being felt and the short / medium term prospects are not good.  at the end of this year, if covid has not wreaked enough havoc, there is a very real risk that brexit could have an extremely negative impact on my country.  so while the honorable thing to do might be to commit to the agreed purchase price, this might be an extremely unwise decision from a personal finance point of view.   why do not you just pull out of the sale then     i could do that, that leaves the seller in a very bad position as well - it will be extremely unlikely they will be able to find another buyer in the short / medium term - so giving them an opportunity to consider my concerns might be better than simply walking away.  answer you could ask, but you risk the seller deciding to just cancel and put the property back on the market once restrictions lift, shutting you out. depending on the exact neighborhood and local market, there is no guarantee that a recession will even affect the chosen neighborhood. you described it as a very competitive, presumably it will still be a desirable neighborhood even in a recession and you did not mention how vulnerable the local economy is to a recession. 	
i saw a recent news article about president trump, forcing car makers to make ventilators.   in the us there also a significant shortage of toilet paper, which seem to be a supply and demand problem. people want more than the available supply.   can the president increase toilet paper supplies    answer president trump was able to do that with ventilators because of the defense production act:    on march 18, 2020, in response to the covid-19 outbreak, president trump issued an executive order that defined ventilators and protective equipment as  essential to the national defense , the standard required by the dpa. 17  18  later that day, he indicated that he would not make immediate use of dpa authority, writing,  hopefully there will be no need   he indicated that he would do so in a  worst-case scenario . 19  20  speaker of the house nancy pelosi called upon trump to  immediately use the powers of the dpa to mass produce and coordinate distribution of  critically needed hospital equipment such as ventilators, swabs, and personal protective equipment. 19  20  on march 20, trump said that he will use the dpa. 21  general motors  gm  ceo mary barra spoke to trump administration officials about how gm could support production of ventilators. 22  on march 23, trump issued an executive order classifying  health and medical resources necessary to respond to the spread of covid-19  as subject to the authority granted by dpa to prohibit hoarding and price gouging. 23  24  trump is continued reluctance to use the act is authorities prompted further criticism. 25  on march 27, 2020, after negotiations with gm to produce ventilators had broken down over cost, which was being estimated at over  1 billion, but primarily due to gm is uncertainty as to its ability to provide the number of ventilators required speedily, trump ordered hhs secretary alex azar to use the authority available under the dpa to require gm to accept and prioritize contracts for the number of ventilators that azar determines to be appropriate. 26  trump also named peter navarro national policy coordinator for the dpa. 27    for trump to do this for toilet paper, he would need to declare it vital to national defense. that seems kind of silly to me, but i recon he could do that. it has been done for  aerospace structures :    in june 13, 2017, president donald trump invoked the law to classify as  critical to national defense  two sets of products. the first referenced  items affecting aerospace structures and fibers, radiation-hardened microelectronics, radiation test and qualification facilities, and satellite components and assemblies . 13  14   	
if the world had not noticed that covid-19 was significantly different from previous situations, and if it had treated it like any other flu outbreak, what would have happened   typically an influenza outbreak of any kind results in nursing homes and other sensitive areas being closed to visitors and their taking extra precautions for internal cleanliness and hygiene.  if all the effort were put into protecting the most vulnerable and everyone else simply warned to be careful, the disease would spread among the general population but there would be very few serious cases.  in the short, medium, and long term, would the world be significantly better or worse than it will be with the current political actions   answer i think the following quoted article mostly answers my question.  the current, sometimes draconian, measures are not being taken to prevent the spread of covid-19, only to reduce the rate at which it spreads.  a system that can handle a hundred new patients each week for many months, typically can not handle hundreds of new patients each day for a few weeks.  in either case, the same number of people get infected.  in one case the seriously ill can be properly treated, in the other case almost no one can be properly treated.  coronavirus disease  covid-19  - our world in data contains this information:     flattening the curve     this is why early counter measures are important in an epidemic. their  intention is to lower the rate of infection so that the epidemic is  spread out over time and the peak demand for the health care system is  lower.    while the total number who get infected might not change, the  containment measures intend to avoid an outbreak trajectory in which a  large number of people get sick at the same time. this is what the  visualization shows.    this is the reason that limiting the magnitude of peak incidence of an  outbreak is important - health systems can care for more patients when  the number of cases is spread out over a long period and it is not  peaking in a very short period.    a worst-case scenario for a pandemic of covid-19 is that the number of  patients at one point in time is so large that health systems would  fail to provide the required care for some of them    	
can i step out to withdraw money from the atm  answer can i step out to withdraw money from the atm  yes, one can step out to withdraw money individually	
can coronaviruses mutate to an extent to get as dangerous as fliovirusues such as marburg viruses, ravn or ebola zaire    answer  wouldangerous  is quite a subjective term, and can be defined in different ways.  viruses vary in their pathogenicity, which is essentially the ability of the virus to cause a disease in a single individual. this can influence other factors, such as the case fatality rate, which is the proportion of people who die from the disease once they have contracted it. for example, the ebola virus has a very high case fatality rate of up to 90 .  however, those are not the only ways in which you could define wouldangerous . we might also consider the total number of people that the virus can kill. this often is not a linear relationship with the case fatality rate. often, viruses with a high case fatality rate  burn out  before than can inflict a global pandemic, because people die before they can spread the disease on to others. vice versa, viruses with a relatively low case fatality rate, such as the spanish flu  2-3   can be extremely wouldangerous  and kill millions of people.   but there is no hard and fast rule, as the propensity of a virus to cause a global pandemic is influenced by many, many other factors.   so to answer your question: is it possible for the covid-19 to mutate into something as dangerous as ebola  well, if we are thinking about it is pathogenicity - influenza a h5n1  bird flu  had a case fatality rate of about 60 , which is pretty high for a flu virus. for context, the seasonal flu which has a case fatality rate of about 0.1 . i am not an expert in virology, so it would be great if someone with more knowledge could confirm this, but it seems very unlikely that the covid-19 virus could acquire mutations to the degree where it would kill as high as 90  of the people who acquire it, like ebola does. ebola is a hemorrhagic virus, which is a totally different mechanism of pathogenicity to the coronavirus family.   it is plausible that covid-19 could obtain mutations which allow it to transfer more quickly between humans. for example, we know that the spanish flu acquired mutations in hemagglutinin subtype which allowed it to be more transmissible between humans. generally, coronaviruses have relatively lower r0 rates than other disease   2/3 compared to measles which is 12-18 . the total number of people killed by the ebola outbreak was about 11,000. covid-19 has already killed  3000  although the exact figure is hard to quantify , so it seems like on the global level, covid-19 will be more dangerous than ebola, if we consider the total number of people killed.  	
i am going to japan from western europe in march  by plane . i have a stop in shanghai   2h. long so i will stay in airport . due to the coronavirus related protective measures, will i be quarantined when arriving to japan   update - 02-03-2020  i was able to reschedule my flights for later with no charge, so i chose another company and have direct flights now.  answer no, you will not. japan has banned entry of all foreigners who have travelled to zhejiang and hubei provinces within 14 days of travelling to japan, but shanghai, a provincial-level city, does not belong to either. you are  so far  safe.  it is, nevertheless, highly possible that japan will soon extend this travel ban to the entirety of china. keep updated. as a comment suggests, you are encouraged to keep an eye on the timatic news feed, as well as the news.  note: take care of where is your next destination  transit or otherwise . for example, if it is singapore and its within 14 days, singapore will deny you transit or entry for the 2 hour you spent in china. 	
should i wear a face mask  answer not unless you are the one who is sick.  the cdc does not currently recommend any healthy person wear a mask and doctors warn fiddling with putting on and taking off a mask could backfire by exposing your hands to your face.   surgical masks fit rather loosely around the face and are not constructed, nor thick enough, to prevent infection,  schaffner said.  while they could have a modest benefit, any protection they provide is likely more psychological than scientific. n-95 masks, which hospitals use, are expensive and are not easy to wear, meaning they are not a practical option for everyday use. as health officials have noted, masks should be reserved for the health care workers, not the general public.  in recent weeks, n-95 masks have grown so scarce that the white house is asking americans who have them, as well as construction companies, to donate them to hospitals, so that health care workers are not forced to treat covid-19 patients without a mask, which puts them at risk for contracting the virus themselves.   the other thing a mask can do is give you a false sense of security, and that is not helpful,  said dr. michael merson, a visiting professor at nyu is school of global public health and a professor at duke university. masks work better at preventing people who are coughing and sneezing from spreading respiratory droplets and infecting others, but  those people who are sick should probably be at home anyway.     	
can the virus that causes covid-19 be transmitted through the air  answer studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air. see previous answer on  how does covid-19 spread  	
is it best to cancel routine doctor and dental appointments  answer federal health officials are asking americans to stay home as much as possible and cancel any elective surgeries. some local and state governments have implemented stricter rules.    if it is possible to keep your appointment and speak with your provider over the phone or video, you should. however, if you cannot speak with a provider remotely and are able to reschedule your in-person appointment for a later date, you should.	
can someone who has had covid-19 spread the illness to others  answer the virus that causes covid-19 is spreading from person-to-person. people are thought to be most contagious when they are symptomatic  the sickest . that is why cdc recommends that these patients be isolated either in the hospital or at home  depending on how sick they are  until they are better and no longer pose a risk of infecting others. more recently the virus has also been detected in asymptomatic persons. how long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release someone from isolation is made using a test-based or non-test-based strategy  i.e. time since illness started and time since recovery  in consultation with state and local public health officials. the decision involves considering the specifics of each situation, including disease severity, illness signs and symptoms, and the results of laboratory testing for that patient. learn more about cdc is guidance on when to release someone from isolation and discharge hospitalized patients with covid-19. for information on when someone who has been sick with covid-19 is able to stop home isolation see interim guidance for discontinuation of in-home isolation for patients with covid-19. someone who has been released from isolation is not considered to pose a risk of infection to others.	
are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating the covid-19  answer no. antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. covid-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of covid-19. they should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection.	
i have tried to find an answer to this but have not found anything after multiple attempts.  the question on the table is if the human body is able to produce an immune response to the covid-19 virus if one has been exposed  this would apply most specifically to persons that have been tested positive but have  survived   i.e. not having succumbed to the serious lung complications that have caused deaths for some persons .   a follow on question that comes from this is if the human body is able to mount a suitable defense does the current practice of keeping people in quarantine for two weeks allow for this defense to reach full effectiveness    answer we probably will not really know for certain until we have time to gather more data from survivors. however, infection with existing coronaviruses  including sars-cov, genetically very similar to the covid-19 virus sars-cov-2  ref. http://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-020-0695-z  suggests that those who are infected and survive may develop temporary immunity  ref. http://www.statnews.com/2020/02/04/two-scenarios-if-new-coronavirus-isnt-contained/ :    the toll of a seasonal-flu-like coronavirus also depends on immunity -- which is also scientifically uncertain. exposure to the four endemic coronaviruses produces immunity that lasts longer than that to influenza, webby said, but not permanent immunity. like respiratory syncytial virus, which can re-infect adults who had it in childhood, coronavirus immunity wanes.     everyone, by the time they reach adulthood, should have some immunity to some coronavirus,  said tim sheahan, a coronavirus researcher at university of north carolina is gillings school of global public health. but because it does not last, older people can get reinfected. the elderly also have a higher death rate from coronaviruses such as sars and mers, a pattern 2019-ncov is following.     there is some evidence that people can be reinfected with the four coronaviruses and that there is no long-lasting immunity,  dr. susan kline, an infectious disease specialist at of the university of minnesota.  like rhinoviruses  which cause the common cold , you could be infected multiple times over your life. you can mount an antibody response, but it wanes, so on subsequent exposure you do not have protection.  subsequent infections often produce milder illness, however.   it might also be possible that someone was infected with two different strains of sars-cov-2 and did not develop immunity from the first infection. but it could have also been a continuation of the first infection, or testing error. without virus sequence data, it was not possible to determine what happened for certain  ref. http://www.wired.com/story/did-a-woman-get-coronavirus-twice-scientists-are-skeptical/ :    what could be worse than getting the pneumonia-like illness now known as covid-19  getting it twice.    that is what japanese government officials say may have happened to a female tour bus guide in osaka. the woman was first diagnosed with covid-19 in late january, according to a statement released by osaka is prefectural government wednesday. she was discharged shortly after, once her symptoms had improved. a subsequent test came back negative for the virus. three weeks later she returned with a sore throat and chest pain and tested again. for a second time, she tested positive for covid-19.    news reports detailing the case raised the possibility that people may not be developing immunity to the new coronavirus, even after they have recovered. but several infectious disease specialists say there is not enough data to support that conclusion. another possibility is that the virus subsided and flared up again.  some viruses tend to do that.  or the test was simply wrong.   if someone was infected twice, comparing the genomic sequences of the virus over time would have helped determine that with more certainty. 	
is covid-19 the same as sars  answer no. the virus that causes covid-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars  in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different. sars was more deadly but much less infectious than covid-19. there have been no outbreaks of sars anywhere in the world since 2003.	
should i get on the subway  go to the grocery store  answer this decision is personal and depends on your tolerance for risk. many places around the world have ordered -- or strongly urged -- residents to stay indoors, unless they absolutely need to be outside. if you can avoid the subway, that may be smart, but if you can not, there are things you can do to minimize your risk. avoid jam-packed cars. if you need to hold onto a pole, use a disposable glove that you can throw away when you leave the subway.  avoid touching your face.  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/05/health/stop-touching-your-face- coronavirus.html  at the grocery store, wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.	
can you contract covid-19 more than once  answer there have been media reports in china, japan, and south korea about individuals who had the virus and eventually tested negative for it and were released, only to test positive for it again a short time later.  scientists in those countries have speculated that testing errors could be to blame, either for a false negative that said the patients were free of the virus or for the positive result that signalled its reoccurrence.  dr. iris gorfinkel, a family physician and medical researcher, said it is really too soon to know whether an individual can contract covid-19 more than once, and how quickly that can happen.   we actually do not know. we do not know how long-lasting the immunity is to it,  she told ctv is your morning on march 16.  these viruses have the tendency to morph and change.   in fact, it is still not even clear if people develop an immediate immunity to covid-19, as is typically the case with other virus strains, such as the flu.   so just like any other virus, there is the possibility that it could shift or drift. just minor changes could change it from a once mild infection to a more severe infection,  she explained.	
what are the results so far with the tests of the z-pak and malaria med, hydroxychloroquine  answer there are no approved therapies or drugs to treat covid-19. anecdotal reportssuggest that a known anti-malarial  hydroxychloroquine  combined with a commonantibiotic  azithromycin, sold as zithromax and z-pak  may offer some benefitin the treatment of hospitalized covid-19 patients.a very small  study in france  http://www.mediterranee-infection.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/hydroxychloroquine final doi ijaa.pdf  of just acouple dozen patients found some evidence that the combination was effectivein fighting covid-19. a  subsequent study  http://www.mediterranee-infection.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/covid-ihu-2-1.pdf mod article inline of 80 patients in france found clinical improvement in all but one.  studiesin china  http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.22.20040758v2  havesuggested similar results.researchers have warned that the drugs  can have risky sideeffects  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/24/malaria-drug-chloroquine-unproven-coronavirus/2900563001/  and could cause subtle heartchanges and increase a person is risk of developing arrhythmia.clinical trials of the drug combination  began in newyork  http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/amid-ongoing-covid-19-pandemic-governor-cuomo-accepts-recommendation-army-corps-engineers-four  on march 24,and the fda on march 29 granted emergency use of hydroxychloroquine byhospitals.  several otherclinical  http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results recrs  cond covid-19 term hydroxychloroquine cntry us state  city  dist  trials are in the works, according to clinicaltrials.gov. but it is still tooearly to say whether the drugs are effective.	
our uni is closed because of the covid-19 and i am trying to homelearn dynamic programming.   in our algorithms book, there is the following problem:  an example problem for dynamic programming     a driver has 3 cars. he wants to use all of the 3 cars, but want to  use the least gas. each car has a different engine, so it will consume  different amounts of gas to get to each destination. what is the least amount of gas  we can consume while still using each car  after he switches cars, he  can not go back to the previous car.     input description:    first is a number  n , which is the number of destinations that he  wants to reach. then there are 3 lines, each is the gas consumed  while trying to reach each destination  line 1 is car 1, line 2 is car  2, etc..     example input:    7    2 4 1 5 1 1 2    3 3 2 5 3 2 2    1 1 5 4 3 3 3    example output:    12  third car  2 destinations , first car  4 destinations , second car  1 destination .    however, i can not figure out how to start, as i am still learning dp. could you please help me or give me any hints   i think it is a great good example problem, because other problems are very similar so if i master this one, i should be able to solve other problems.  thanks   answer let  g i,j   be the gas consumed when travelling to destination  i  with car  j .  guess the optimal order   langle c 1, c 2, c 3  rangle  of cars  there are only  3    6  possible permutations .   define  opt i,j   as the minimum amount of gas needed for reaching the first  i  destinations using cars  c 1,  dots, c j  in this order, with the constraint that each car must be used at least once. if no feasible solution exists then  opt i,j       infty .  according to the above definition, you have   opt 1,j     begin cases  g 1, c 1   amp   mbox if   j 1      infty  amp   mbox if   j gt 1  end cases   .  and, for  i 2,  dots, n :     opt i,j    g i,c j    begin cases  opt i-1, j   amp   mbox if   j 1     min   opt i-1, j , opt i-1, j-1      amp   mbox if   j gt 1  end cases .    the solution to your problem is  opt n,3  , which can be computed in  o n   time using dynamic programming. 	
are there any countries that will not let foreigners leave the country or return home during pandemics  governments might charter planes to bring their citizens back home, but are there countries that would not allow that to happen   answer luzon island  where manila is located  in philippines decided to ban outbound international flights, but the decision was reversed a few days later:  http://www.rappler.com/business/254885-philippine-airlines-cebu-pacific-airasia-flight-cancelations-coronavirus-luzon-lockdown:    the airline will announce the status of its international flights from march 20 to april 12 at a later date, as it coordinates with authorities.   http://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1096970:    the department of tourism  dot  has lauded the lifting of the travel ban on outbound passengers, except filipino tourists, in line with the luzon-wide enhanced community quarantine.   peru also has a lockdown: http://www.tennessean.com/in-depth/news/health/2020/03/20/americans-stranded-peru-coronavirus-lockdown/2873582001/    some found out when a hotel clerk banged on their door late sunday night to say they had 24 hours to get out of the country   list: http://www.theguardian.com/travel/2020/mar/20/coronavirus-travel-ban-advice-updates-uk-countries-restrictions-fco-warnings:   albania and slovenia: all flights suspended. jordan: no commercial flights in or out of jordan, and all land and sea borders closed. luxembourg: all passenger flights suspended from 23 march. pakistan: all flights suspended until 4 april tajikistan: all flights suspended from 20 march etc.   other lists:   http://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-news/1580226297.htm http://www.aseanbriefing.com/news/coronavirus-asia-asean-live-updates-by-country  asian countries   	
why do we need it  answer  lt  -- /  font definitions  / font-face  font-family: cambria math   panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:1  mso-generic-font-family:roman  mso-font-format:other  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:0 0 0 0 0 0   font-face  font-family:calibri  panose-1:2 15 5 2 2 2 4 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-536870145 1073786111 1 0 415 0   font-face  font-family: arial unicode ms   panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 2 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-134238209 -371195905 63 0 4129279 0   /  style definitions  /p.msonormal, li.msonormal, div.msonormal  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-fareast-language:en-us  p.body, li.body, div.body  mso-style-name:body  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   mso-bidi-font-family: arial unicode ms   color:black  border:none  mso-style-textoutline-type:none  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dpiwidth:0pt  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-linecap:flat  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-join:bevel  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-pctmiterlimit:0   mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dash:solid  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-align:center  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-compound:simple  mso-ansi-language:fr  mso-fareast-language:en-us  text-underline:black  .msochpdefault  mso-style-type:export-only  mso-default-props:yes  font-size:10.0pt  mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-ansi-language:en-us  mso-fareast-language:en-us  .msopapdefault  mso-style-type:export-only   page wordsection1  size:612.0pt 792.0pt  margin:70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt  mso-header-margin:36.0pt  mso-footer-margin:36.0pt  mso-paper-source:0  div.wordsection1  page:wordsection1  -- gt regular physical activity benefits both the body andmind. it can reduce high blood pressure, help manage weight and reduce the riskof heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers. it alsoimproves bone and muscle strength and increases balance, flexibility andfitness. for older people, activities that improve balance help to preventfalls and injuries. for children, regular physical activity helps supporthealthy growth and development and reduce the risk of disease in later life,and through regular activity, children can develop fundamental movement skillsand build social relationships.regular physical activity also improves mental healthand can reduce the risk of depression, cognitive decline and delay the onset ofdementia - and improve overall feelings of wellbeing.	
should i wear a mask to protect myself  answer only wear a mask if you are ill with covid-19 symptoms  especially coughing  or looking after someone who may have covid-19. disposable face mask can only be used once. if you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. there is a world-wide shortage of masks, so who urges people to use masks wisely.  who advises rational use of medical masks to avoid unnecessary wastage of precious resources and mis-use of masks.  the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing.	
i am flying this week from munich to london, and bavaria just got the first contaminated person, who now has the coronavirus 2019-ncov after interacting with chinese colleague. two cases of the novel coronavirus have been confirmed in the uk, and the number of cases in germany has grown. moreover, the coronavirus has now been declared a global health emergency by who.  i got a bunch of emails from sos international and such, on what methodology i should follow to mitigate the risk of getting infected, but none of them addresses the following  hopefully extreme  hypothetical scenario:    i go to my seat, and i suspect the person next to me  or in neighboring seats  has the coronavirus related symptoms  high fever, short breath, etc. . how should i react, without being too paranoid     go in the back to secretly communicate that to the flight attendant, and request a seat change      update  feb 2 : i am now in munich airport, and both pharmacies  before and after security check  have no typical plastic masks  sold-out . they only have some conical-sized ones. the airport does not provide masks  asked in the information . i advise you to buy a typical plastic mask before coming to the airport.  answer a cabin crewmember here.  this is different from airline to another, and country to another, but i can safely assume there are a lot of similarities when it comes to this, as most of the airlines get the instructions from local civil aviation authorities and local health ministries, both authorities get the information from higher global organizations.   the airline i work for supplied its fleet recently with a contagious disease kit, which shall be used by the cabin crew once there are signs of an infected passenger. this kit includes masks to be distributed once needed, a disinfectant liquid  the same as in hospitals  to clean surfaces around the sick passenger, gloves, etc. also, my airline allowed its crewmembers to wear masks if they wish to on flights from/to certain destinations.  as i said, not sure if the same is being followed by other airlines. regardless of that, you should inform the cabin crew right away, they are in this with you, they will know what to do. these days our mailboxes are being filled with health information and updates regarding this, and because we are exposed more than the average person, we really care about this.  finally, what you should worry about is the infected people during the incubation period with no symptoms at all  this has been confirmed , they are as contagious with no way of knowing that. people with fever  a common symptom after the virus incubation period  will not be allowed to board. therefore, it is advised that you follow basic prevention measures, such as washing your hands, avoiding touching your eyes, nose or mouth, cover your mouth when you cough or sneeze, wear a mask  n-95 mask , etc.  this seems like a virus masterpiece, only the coming few days will let us know how serious this is. 	
how many malaria-affected countries have reported cases of covid-19  answer malaria-endemic countries in all who regions have reported cases of covid-19. in the who african region, which carries more than 90  of the global malaria burden, 37 countries had reported cases of the disease as of 25 march  of these, 10 countries reported local transmission of the disease. the latest situation reports on the covid-19 pandemic are available on the who website.	
what should i do if my family member died from covid-19 while overseas  answer when a us citizen dies outside the united states, the deceased person is next of kin or legal representative should notify us consular officials at the department of state. consular personnel are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide assistance to us citizens for overseas emergencies. if a family member, domestic partner, or legal representative is in a different country from the deceased person, he or she should call the department of state is office of overseas citizens services in washington, dc, from 8 am to 5 pm eastern time, monday through friday, at 888-407-4747  toll-free  or 202-501-4444. for emergency assistance after working hours or on weekends and holidays, call the department of state switchboard at 202-647-4000 and ask to speak with the overseas citizens services duty officer. in addition, the us embassyexternal iconexternal iconexternal icon closest to or in the country where the us citizen died can provide assistance.	
what exactly does it mean to flatten the curve  answer flattening the curve refers to the rate at which people are getting infected. without intervention, the number of individuals who contract covid-19 rises exponentially, which means it doubles at a constant rate -- in this case, every three days. at such a rate, the number of infected individuals will overwhelm our hospital system, because we simply do not have enough hospital beds and respirators to treat them all. the united states does not even have enough protective equipment at present to protect its own health care workers.   doing the math, if one person is infected with the virus on jan 1, with the number of people infected people doubling every 3 days, then by march 31, over 1 billion people will have become infected. with the world population being around 7.8 billion, it would only take until april 9 for all of us to be infected.  the situation in italy has shown us that, without enough equipment, hospitals will be compelled to turn away some of the most infirmed among us, resulting in increased fatalities.     staying home does not prevent you from contracting the virus down the line, but from contracting the virus and overwhelming the medical establishment now. postponing exposure buys time for the scientific and medical community to develop effective treatments or a vaccine to minimize or protect against infection.	
a few years ago we wanted to open a new program that will be based on distance learning, however, getting accredited for having a master degree program that is based on distance learning and not on campus is literally a bureaucratic nightmare. first, no one allowed us to use zoom, microsoft teams or other currently popular distance learning tools, second it should be some sort of  moodle  program with clear guidelines for each week. third everything needs to be under guidelines of the distance education accrediting commission, in current covid19 teaching organizational crisis we do not follow those guidelines at all. i wonder what are legal repercussions for doing distance learning when you are not accredited to do one. can our students with disability complain since when they needed this option we could not provide to them since our excuse was that we were not ready or accredited to do so  and last but not least, can we legally organize accredited on-campus program but perform it online or using distance learning completely   answer edit: this answer is somewhat specific to the context of the covid-19 health crisis and about legal justifications for various exceptional teaching strategies being adopted by many universities all over the world these days. it is not clear if that is what you meant to ask about exactly. if it is not, please clarify.    the covid-19 situation and the way universities are responding to it is an illustration of the adage that  it is easier to ask for forgiveness than for permission . basically the situation is so unprecedented that universities are doing whatever they can to stay operational, and leaving legal questions for later. my guess is that these will all be addressed by governments, legislatures, and regulatory bodies at a later time when the people in charge emerge out of panic mode and have time for dealing with such issues.  at the same time, the question of legality is indeed significant, and people are in fact paying attention. for example, in the us, i have heard that the visas of many foreign students explicitly forbid  online learning . as a result, i have also heard  this is basically gossip and i can not confirm it or cite a reference  that some institutions are referring to their current mode of operation as  remote learning  in a euphemistic attempt to pretend that that is conceptually different from  online learning . silly  perhaps, but that is the kind of advice lawyers are giving apparently. similar fig-leaf, cya-style advice is being given about protecting your zoom class meeting with a password to avoid being accused of compromising your students  privacy. does that mean using zoom is technically legal in the sense of being fully ferpa-compliant  who knows - probably not. but at least we make an effort to minimize whatever legal issues we have time to think about and energy to do something about.  but the short answer is, in the academic context as well as other contexts having to do with civil liberties, restrictions on people is movements and many other aspects of our daily lives that are being disrupted, the law is lagging far behind. people in charge will do whatever they need to do without asking for permission, and ask for forgiveness later if they have to  they probably will not . 	
i was flying from canada back home, after all the in-person classes and tests were canceled. so my country kazakhstan  has strict laws that were enforced in regard of the new pandemic. they include closing a passenger of an international flight coming in to kazakhstan in a quarantine hospital. in my case there was only 1 city that had a working airport in the country, my only resort was going there and later traveling to my city. the whole process took place in a prisoner-like environment in which i was held for 4 days. by my release from the first city, i was already late on one of my assignments, and by the time i actually got home in my city, but without luggage and got back to relatively normal state, i was late on the second one. my question is, should i be contacting my professor about this messed up situation, or should i consider something else. im asking this because the missed assignments could make me fail the course.  answer there will be some flexibility for the assignment s  due around the closing / travel / quarantine times - all you have to do is talk to your professor.  however, you need to do this as soon as possible - if you wait 2 months it may not be accepted as people are making exceptions now. 	
have there been disruptions in the global supply of key malaria-related commodities as a result of the covid-19 pandemic  answer yes. in recent days, there have been reports of disruptions in the supply chains of essential malaria commodities - such as long-lasting insecticidal nets, rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial medicines - resulting from lockdowns and from a suspension of the importation and exportation of goods in response to covid-19. coordinated action is required to ensure the availability of key malaria control tools, particularly in countries with a high burden of the disease, and that efforts to limit the spread of covid-19 do not compromise access to malaria prevention, diagnosis and treatment services.	
there are several aggregate central trackers for the spread of covid-19. like this one, for example.  is there anything similar for trials  or trials in the pipeline  either vaccines or treatments   answer i think you are asking about trials  see the clinical trials database 	
we all hear about the massive fluctuations of the stock market due to fears and responses to the coronavirus pandemic. the market also has also triggered  circuit breakers  that temporarily halt trading to prevent massive swings.   what could potentially happen if they just halted all trading for the next two months as a medium-term circuit breaker  assume they did it at night without warning so that people could not get trades in before the closure. would the rest of the economy continue to function otherwise  other coronavirus effects not withstanding   during the closure, i would imagine that stock prices would just stay the same and then companies would adapt to their changing supply and demand situation as needed, right    once it opened again there might be a swing once we know which companies have survived the pandemic and which will not but that speculation is happening on a daily basis now, why not just close it to prevent chaos and allow companies to think longer term without worrying about momentary market valuation   answer this idea of an extended  market holiday  is a completely normal idea. a lot of people have had this idea, especially today, and i will tell you below why it is terrible. just flat-out bad. i once had this idea during the gfc when i was also new-ish to the market, so do not feel bad.   i believe one of the cnbc hosts was touting this idea this morning. a simple way to refute one of the underlying notions here is thus: if you do not like what you see then just go ahead and close your eyes, and the bad thing will go away right  of course not.  you might say  maybe the market just does not know what stocks are worth right now and that is why the market is down.  i would answer that no one ever really knows exactly what a business/stock is worth  some exceptions aside . generally, people who sell think it is worth less than the price and people who buy think it is worth more, so why do we need to shut the market    you might say  maybe not everyone feels comfortable trading or feels like they know what this specific business/stock is worth right now so that is why we should halt trading.  i would answer with why can not the people that do want to trade continue trading and if you do not know/ just are not  comfortable  then step aside, no one is forced to trade  unless maybe they used leverage/need the money .   the punchline on extended market holidays, reiterated: except in cases of traders or technology used to trade actually being unavailable/overtaxed for some reason, it is something we should avoid at all costs. there are lots of negatives, and i am not aware of any positives outside of the corner cases mentioned above.  a surprise trading halt as you mentioned of an extended variety is one of the worst things that can be done to a market. imagine...   surprise  that thing you owned that you thought was liquid and you could buy or sell on most days monday-friday, excepting holidays, actually is not  and if you need to raise money between now and the market re-opening, tough   when the market does re-open, going forward, everything in that market should be priced more cheaply in one respect, and that is to account for a new illiquidity premium that has been introduced to the market. all else equal, if you could own the same stock on two exchanges and one had random extended trading halts while the other did not, there should be a disparity in the pricing, albeit not massive, between the two. i would rather own the one that trades more frequently. illiquidity in an asset is not a good thing.  just because something is not trading and its price stays the same does not mean its value is not changing, it just means that it is harder to estimate no one can truly see it  that true value. it is quite possible that when the market reopened some of the companies would be worthless. see the bullet two down on the economy for more info here.  it is harder for everyone to deal in securities that have random extended halts because of those halts, which hurts liquidity even further going forward. less liquidity is bad. the rest of the economy would continue to function, but not as well as it would with the market open. so many transactions happen in the market on a daily basis and while some of these are retail or professional investors trading in the market, many of these trades are transactions where one company is hedging their exposure to another company. or, just using the market to see a gauge of the health of their counterparty to determine if they are going to engage in a business transaction and if so at what level with what other terms. imagine one company is buying components from another. each will look at the markets to judge the health of the other in their negotiations. without functioning markets, that process gets more difficult and it is exponentially more difficult at times of stress when companies are worried about the health of other companies. that is when it is most important for markets to be open. if markets are not, distrust reigns and activity/deals between companies grind to a halt. that harms the economy. closing the market does not allow companies to think longer term. closing the market causes everyone to speculate which companies are in credit trouble and will not be around. others seek to limit or avoid exposure to the firms that might be failing by cancelling orders and halting shipments. just the rumor that someone is in trouble will cause others to stop dealing with that firm and then it really is over for the company in question. if the market was open that did not have to happen. the  chaos  you describe is simply the process of price discovery in times of uncertain economic outlook. the market is volatile, it is what it is. instead of wondering what companies are likely worth for the next two months we can let them trade and have a best estimate. that is what the market is, an estimating machine for the value of businesses.  those values are very important to businesses as they do business with each other. the stock market is not some pure speculation machine/ random number generator that pushes values around willy-nilly.  think of it this way: maybe i do not like when prices change so we should just have stocks trade once a year, then everyone can really  plan long term   that sounds ludicrous right  it is the same idea. the world is a scarier place, companies are making less, businesses are hurting, people are dying and stocks are worth less as a result. closing our eyes will not make the situation any better. restricting trade by closing the market would hurt the underlying economy. trade is generally a pretty good thing.  	
how does the virus spread  answer coronavirus spreads from person to person by droplets from the nose or mouth from coughing or sneezing. people can also catch it by coming into contact with contaminated surfaces or skin. the who says  other people then catch covid-19  coronavirus  by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth . this is why people are being encouraged to regularly wash their hands with soap and to not go too near to people who have it.  it is very unlikely it can be spread through things like packages or food , according to nhs advice.	
what should people at higher risk of serious illness with covid-19 do  answer if you are at higher risk of getting very sick from covid-19, you should:  stock up on supplies take everyday precautions to keep space between yourself and others when you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick limit close contact and wash your hands often avoid crowds, cruise travel, and non-essential travel  if there is an outbreak in your community, stay home as much as possible. watch for symptoms and emergency signs. if you get sick, stay home and call your doctor. more information on how to prepare, what to do if you get sick, and how communities and caregivers can support those at higher risk is available on people at risk for serious illness from covid-19.	
because ace2 is used by sars-ncov-2 to enter the cell, i am curious what factors determine its expression. interestingly, myocardial infarction increases ace2 expression in the heart in an animal model   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15671045  . the paper found no significant effect from ramipril, an ace inhibitor, but i do not think i can assume arbs would work the same way.  i am suspicious they might increase it based on the increase in the product ang 1-7  level - http://www.nature.com/articles/hr200974   note that soluble sace2 can bind cells that did not produce it, by an rgd independent association with integrin beta 1.  anything that influences the amount of ace2 on cell surfaces is a useful answer.  answer i should follow up with some things i have found. as a starting point, the normal expression pattern is available at http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/path.1570 - note the staining of simple squamous epithelium in the alveoli and the endothelia of blood vessels. another paper details a sharp decrease in expression with age in rats, but i do not know if that extends to humans.  for regulation of expression, i was surprised to see that google scholar actually provides a very good assortment of search results, easier to work with than pubmed, which were topped by the mi regulation i described in the question. additionally http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/path.1670  yes, that is a different link  describes ace2 expression in renal disease but not in normal kidney. ace2 expression correlated with proteinuria, but negatively with gfr. http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00125-008-0988-x there are discordant notes in some other situations: for example, subtotal nephrectomy decreased ace2 expression in a way that was partially prevented by ramipril. http://portlandpress.com/clinsci/article/118/4/269/68827/reduction-in-renal-ace2-expression-in-subtotal  the mrna and protein are both described in atherosclerotic lesions: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/path.2357   in the lungs http://jvi.asm.org/content/79/23/14614.short describes a positive correlation with differentiation state in airway epithelium. the regulation by hif-1 alpha in hypoxia seems of special importance: http://journals.physiology.org/doi/full/10.1152/ajplung.90415.2008 but it is complicated  both positive and negative .  ace2 is also expressed at high levels in placenta during pregnancy - at least in rats. http://journals.physiology.org/doi/full/10.1152/ajpregu.90592.2008  last but not least, pharmacologic data is reviewed at http://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s11906-008-0076-0.pdf which describes up-regulation of ace2 by angiotensin ii receptor blockers, ace blockers, and mineralocorticoid receptor blockers. this includes the common drugs lisinopril and losartan.  see also http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/jcmm.12573   unfortunately the paper did not report substances inhibiting ace2 expression. but http://journals.physiology.org/doi/full/10.1152/ajpheart.00239.2008 reported that high glucose     or pkc inhibitors could reduce ace2 expression.  but the high glucose was causing kidney injury, which as described above could mean more ace2...  the anti-diabetes drug liraglutide increased ace2: http://academic.oup.com/endo/article/156/10/3559/2422879 to top it all off  sars itself decreases ace2 expression, and this might be part of the process injuring the lungs: http://www.nature.com/articles/nm1267  this is by no means a complete survey, and there is much i do not understand. the relationship between ace2 biology and the emerging covid-19 risk groups seems apparent - as is the urgent need for research to determine which manipulations to ace2 expression have positive versus negative effects on the prognosis of that disease.  update: a nejm podcast today described this biology as  complicated  link. it is clearly of interest, but still under investigation. for example, losartan is presently the subject of two clinical studies news, presumably these clinicaltrials 	
according to the wikia, fans had a chance to vote on if they wanted a miracle to occur. this was during the run of the series. what is this miracle  information in japanese can be found on the second link but it is not easily google translateable.  answer there was the kimiuso staff talk event at 2015/05/16 in tokyo japan.  the miracle  was explained by the staffs of kimiuso in this event. http://live.nicovideo.jp/watch/lv218533566  we can not watch this live streaming already, but we can read the viewer is blog. i reprint and translate the important point.  japanese    xuan chuan asaniwaku,  he mokao etenakatsuta  to.    english    pr staff a told us to  i was not thinking about anything .   as it turns out, there was no miracle. this is the most official conclusion.  we japanese fans are thinking that the miracle was the staff a is uso   lie :p 	
can i book an uber or ola to go to the airport  answer can i book an uber or ola to go to the airport  yes	
how does covid-19 spread  answer people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick.  who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share updated findings.	
can people get checks even if they have not filed a tax return in recent years  answer in cases where people have not filed tax returns but receive social security benefits or railroad retirement benefits, the irs can look at statements about those benefits to help get the checks to those people.    for people who have not filed a 2018 or 2019 tax return and do not receive social security or railroad retirement benefits, there is an incentive to promptly file a tax return to ensure that the irs can reach them to distribute the money to them this year.     people who do not file tax returns are typically low-income. for example, the irs requires married couples with both spouses under 65 to file returns for 2019 if their gross income was at least  24,400. that threshold is raised to  27,000 in cases where both spouses were 65 or older. social security benefits often are not included in gross income.	
a search following a recent news item led me to a cdc morbidity and mortality weekly report for 23 march 2020 which says in part:    sars-cov-2 rna was identified on a variety of  surfaces in cabins of both symptomatic and asymptomatic  infected passengers up to 17 days after cabins were vacated  on the diamond princess but before disinfection procedures  had been conducted  takuya yamagishi, national institute of  infectious diseases, personal communication, 2020 . although  these data cannot be used to determine whether transmission  occurred from contaminated surfaces, further study of fomite  transmission of sars-cov-2 aboard cruise ships is warranted.   identifying bits of rna does not imply a surface is infectious and that is not what i am asking about here.   this reminded me of answer s  to was 14,000  year old dna  laying around in cave dirt  protected from degradation, or is it just naturally this robust  which explain that small fragments of dna can be quite stable in some environments  in some places on earth the dna in the soil can be ten thousand years old.  question: roughly speaking how stable are short sections of single-stranded rna in exposed environments compared to double-stranded dna   the answer is likely to contain  it depends on...  as did the answer to the dna stability question, i am primarily interested in the differential stability between the two.  answer the main difference in stability is due to the very high amounts of rnase in pretty much all fresh biological materials. naked rna is easily degraded by just touching it with skin. the first step in most rna extractions is often to add an rnase inhibitor.  for example, from wikipedia is ribonuclease  rnase contamination during rna extraction:    the extraction of rna in molecular biology experiments is greatly complicated by the presence of ubiquitous and hardy ribonucleases that degrade rna samples. certain rnases can be extremely hardy and inactivating them is difficult compared to neutralizing dnases. in addition to the cellular rnases that are released, there are several rnases that are present in the environment. rnases have evolved to have many extracellular functions in various organisms.  	
if i travel from the uk to france at the moment  20/03/2020  i need to provide proof that i am on an  authorized outing , as per the regulations here:  http://www.gouvernement.fr/en/coronavirus-covid-19  i have booked a eurostar train from london to brussels  the route, of course, goes through france for a short period. eurostar have texted and emailed me to say that these restrictions hold, but it is unclear whether these rules apply only to their trains to france. do i still need a certificate to comply with the french government is rules even if i am going directly to belgium   answer according to the uk foreign office travel advice website http://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france    uk nationals can enter france if they have completed the necessary   attestation   see above  confirming that their travel is an  absolutely necessary journey.   therefore, it seems that although you are just passing through france, because you are entering french territory then you must still comply with these restrictions.  it may be best to contact eurostar and talk to them directly to find out more details for your situation and how they could help.  edit: as of 15:00 on friday 20th march belgium has also closed its borders for non-essential travel.  source: http://www.politico.eu/article/belgium-closes-borders-for-non-essential-travel/ 	
i wish to investigate how a virus could be attenuated through targeted mutagenesis by investigating its protein mutations in order to produce an efficacious vaccine. are there examples where the protein sequence of exisiting vaccine strains have been compared against their wild-type counterparts to understand the mechanism of virulence/attenuation  secondly which viral proteins are the focus of such studies   i am a computer scientist looking for a mathematical approach towards understanding the mutational parameter space of viral protein sequence data, for example through a mutational correlation matrix between vaccine and wild type protein sequence. this may have application for example to covid-19.  answer there is not a vaccine for any coronavirus, and your question is generally about targeted attentuation, which is a complex area.   the basic building blocks for any vaccine development is virological understanding of the proteins involved in pathogenesis. i will focus on covid-19 as an example here.  the majority of bioinformatics work is based around the spike protein as is wetlab vaccine development. this gene is immediately after the 20 kb of orf1ab, including the rna dependent rna polymerase, its around 3.5 kb but it might be a bit bigger. the spike protein is a major b-cell  antibody  antigenic determinant and the cellular receptor sites are located within it. your bioinformatics could ultimately focus on targeting these specific sites, in particular using antigenic  antibody  prediction algorithms.   first you need some basic biology of spike and hydrophobicity prediction is a good starting point such as tmhmm here and consider the sars spike protein structure for example here. once you have a handle on those structures antigenicity scanning would be a next phase analysis and possibly homology modelling. this is because covid-19 and sars are closely related, but there are key differences. you finally consider the full range of amino acid mutations in current epidemic via ncbi.  at this point you would target a specific vaccine design strategy and have a clearer understanding on the approach you wish to take. good luck  	
can my esta waiver visitor from japan extend her stay here with us until it is safe to return to japan   answer someone who entered on the visa waiver program cannot apply for extension of status  i.e. extend their stay on vwp  or change of status  i.e. change to another nonimmigrant status, e.g. b2 visitor . however, there is something called  satisfactory departure  which can be granted to vwp visitors who cannot leave within their 90 days of admission due to an emergency like hospitalization or natural disaster in the us, to allow them to stay for an additional period of at most 30 days. i am not sure whether a fear of returning to a country with some disease transmission will qualify.  the us has also sometimes granted temporary protected status  tps  for years to people in the us who are nationals of developing countries that have suffered a major disaster with long-term effect on the country is infrastructure like a major earthquake, civil war, or ebola outbreak, etc. however, i highly doubt that they would do that for covid-19, as it is a short-term problem that does not significantly damage the country is infrastructure, and has mostly been in relatively developed countries. also, republicans have been wary of granting tps. 	
sweden has adopted a far less radical set of policies in reaction to covid-19 than most other european states. many other european states are in  lock-down , with severe restrictions on people is free movement, with people being advised to only leave their homes for food/medicine. in sweden, by contrast, people are largely carrying on with their normal lives.    while every other country in europe has been ordered into ever more stringent coronavirus lockdown, sweden has remained the exception. schools for pupils up to 16 years, kindergartens, bars, restaurants, ski resorts, sports clubs, hairdressers: all remain open, weeks after everything closed down in next door denmark and norway.    as the rest of europe lives under lockdown, sweden keeps calm and carries on - the guardian, march 28, 2020   what social and political factors underlie this decision, and why is it so dramatically different to other european countries response   answer the reason for sweden is rather hands-off approach compared to other european countries was summed up rather well by lead epidemiologist of the public health agency of sweden, anders tegnell, who said in an interview with cnbc:    my view is that basically all european countries are trying to do the  same thing -- we are trying to slow down the spread as much as possible  to keep healthcare and society working ... and we have shown some  different methods to slow down the spread,  ...  sweden has gone  mostly for voluntary measures because that is how we are used to  working, and we have a long tradition that it works rather well.   this tradition of  laissez-faire-ism  that tegnell talks about was explored by johan norberg in his 2013 essay how laissez-faire made sweden rich. this is quite long but well worth a read. notably, norberg argues that rather than sweden is economic and social successes being a result of the sap  managing to tax, spend, and regulate sweden into a more equitable distribution of wealth--without hurting its productive capacity , sweden is greatest successes both economically and socially  took place when sweden had a laissez-faire economy .  sweden is approach to the current pandemic, then, would seem to be influenced by the political traditions of its past. i should note that although tegnell is hopeful that the current strategy will be successful, he does not rule out the implementation of more stringent measures should the data suggest that the laissez-faire tactics are not working.  as far as social factors that have influenced sweden is response go, one such factor is how sparsely spread its population is. this article from our world in data notes how sweden consistently ranks near the top of metrics related to single-occupant households, and the country also ranks 50th out of 54th for population density amongst other european countries.  it is likely that another factor has been the reluctance of the government to negatively affect the economy more than is required. for example, although taking a hands-off approach with regard to restricting personal liberties, it has taken a far more active role in ensuring the continued functioning of business, and on march 27th announced that it will guarantee 70  of bank loans provided to companies that are experiencing financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic.  in conclusion, sweden is response so far seems to be a combination of the reluctance of swedes to accept restrictions on personal liberty - note the outcry by opposition parties when a proposal to rule by decree was announced, a tradition of past laissez-faire approaches, and distinct social factors that will potentially help provide a natural defence against the virus. 	
today the cdc released an official list of what kills the covid-19 virus but the list does not mention 70  isopropyl alcohol.  this is a fairly basic disinfectant and it seems it should have been on the list assuming it kills the virus and that is why i am asking. thank you  answer yes, it does.  according to the cdc, this is how surfaces should be disinfected:    surfaces      wear disposable gloves when cleaning and disinfecting surfaces. gloves should be discarded after each cleaning. if reusable gloves are  used, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection  of surfaces for covid-19 and should not be used for other purposes.  consult the manufacturer is instructions for cleaning and disinfection  products used. clean hands immediately after gloves are removed.  if surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.  for disinfection, diluted household bleach solutions, alcohol solutions with at least 70  alcohol, and most common epa-registered  household disinfectants should be effective.      diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. follow manufacturer is instructions for application  and proper ventilation. check to ensure the product is not past its  expiration date. never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other  cleanser. unexpired household bleach will be effective against  coronaviruses when properly diluted.      prepare a bleach solution by mixing:      5 tablespoons  1/3rd cup  bleach per gallon of water or  4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water      a list of products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claims, maintained by the american chemistry council center for  biocide chemistries  cbc , is available at:  http://www.americanchemistry.com/novel-coronavirus-fighting-products-list.pdf.  products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claims are  expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to  kill viruses. follow the manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning  and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and  contact time, etc. .    for soft  porous  surfaces such as carpeted floor, rugs, and drapes, remove visible contamination if present and clean with  appropriate cleaners indicated for use on these surfaces. after  cleaning: launder items as appropriate in accordance with the  manufacturer is instructions. if possible, launder items using the  warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items  completely, or use products with the epa-approved emerging viral  pathogens claims  examples at this linkpdf iconexternal icon  that are  suitable for porous surfaces.    	
how do you practise safe sex during a pandemic  answer if you live with your partner, they count as being part of your household. if neither of you is showing coronavirus symptoms and you are already in close contact, having sex will not increase the likelihood of you catching the virus from one another. if one person does have symptoms, they should be self-isolating in a separate room. using contraception such as condoms will not alter your risk of catching the virus, as having sex will bring you into close physical contact anyway.  if you are going to touch each other is genitals it is likely that you will potentially be kissing at the same time - and we know the virus is passed through saliva,  dr alex george told the bbc is newsbeat.  essentially, any possibility of transfer of coronavirus - from your mouth to your hands, to genitals, to someone else is nose or mouth - increases the risk of passing on coronavirus. 	
as a non-biologist, my understanding is sars-cov-2 uses it spike protein to latch on to the ace2 receptor on cells in order to inject its genetic material into the cell.  questions:   what would happen if you flooded a person with exogenous ace2 proteins   would the virus attach to these decoy proteins and thereby save cells from being infected   would the injected proteins cause unwanted side effects   has this approach to treating viral infections been tried before    reference: http://f1000research.com/articles/9-72  answer this is indeed a reputable strategy   1,2,4  for rapid response to novel pathogens. see http://phys.org/news/2020-01-scientists-decoy-molecule-neutralizes-arenaviruses.html and the open access article it cites http://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-13924-6  in the case of coronavirus, however, there is an issue  your  3  in that ace2 is an enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of a circulating hormone, angiotensin ii, which is responsible for maintaining high  or normal  blood pressure. so the  bait  used would have to be at least somewhat altered from this. you would probably have to take into account how it affected other protein interactions such as with integrin beta 1 ...  see articles like http://europepmc.org/article/med/14754895   to avoid getting caught up in speculation, it makes sense that a neutralizing protein might be made from part of ace2 just as a neutralizing monoclonal antibody could be made, but you still have to have something specific before you can test for safety and efficacy. 	
should i visit a hospital at all  or just quarantine will do  answer should i visit a hospital at all  or just quarantine will do  if you experience flu like symptoms, it is best to consult a local doctor. do not head to the hospital straightaway as it can expose you to the infection.	
is it safe to buy fruit and veg, including salad food that is not in any packaging and if it is not, what should i do to make it safe  answer the british retail consortium says retailers and their suppliers are continuing to work to the highest standards of hygiene when handling products, and are observing safety processes set by the food standards agency and public health england.    however, it makes sense to wash unpackaged items such as fruit and vegetables thoroughly under running water, before leaving them to dry. you should also then wash your hands with soap and water.	
as nepal is neighbouring country of china as well nepal is celebrating visit nepal 2020 this year.  updates about covid-19 in nepal. this is useful for all travellers who are planning to travel in spring 2020.  answer if you are planning to travel any country in spring 2020 please read more about corona virus .   who advisory q amp a on corona viruses current country-wise updates guardian live live view on map   now lets talk about nepal. currently there is not any positive case mentioned in nepalese citizens. nepal is not providing on arrival visas from march 5 to march 31 2020  can be extended  for china, south korea, italy, iran, hong kong. athough nepal is safe currently, if you are planning to travel nepal in spring 2020 please extend to autumn  	
i own a condo apartment in schaumburg illinois. the tenant has lost her job because of covid-2019 and is unable to pay the rent. i however have to pay the monthly installments as mortgage for this house.  what are the options for me  can i terminate the lease which currently ends on october 2020  is there a law where i can evict the tenant   answer any eviction order  for non-payment  will not be enforced by the sheriff  as ordered by the court , and that is how evictions would happen. this is also required under the governor is order of march 20. foreclosure entails eviction - though the order prohibits the enforcement of an associated eviction order, and does not prohibit starting action against a property owner. theoretically, you could file for eviction against your tenant and at some point the petition could be granted, and the sheriff would enforce it. those are the current legal options. current  optimistic  projections are that evictions could happen in the second half of may. 	
there are numerous articles talking about how people are tired of staying in lockdown:    as greece enters its third week since restrictive measures were first  imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus, there is mounting concern  that fatigue is setting in amid signs of people beginning to flout the  policies.    speaking to ant1 tv, the government spokesman stelios petsas said the  centre-right administration was now considering placing a time limit  on the movement of citizens outdoors, the guardian reports.   are there any polls which attempt to track how much people are content with staying under lockdown   answer the day after lockdown measures were implemented in the uk, yougov conducted a poll of 2788 adults testing whether they supported or opposed the imposition of the measures.  they found that 76  of respondents strongly supported the measures, 17  somewhat supported them, and only a combined 4  opposed them in any way.  just over two weeks later, on april 9th, they conducted another poll which asked respondents whether they would support or oppose lockdown restrictions being extended further than the initial three week period.  it found that while strength of support may have dropped slightly, the public was still overwhelmingly in favour of an extended lockdown, and that any drop in support was fairly negligible - combined opposition was found to be 5 , with combined support at 91 .  indeed, yougov has also found that at least in one part of the uk, respondents think that the lockdown does not go far enough - a poll published on april 10th that surveyed adults in wales found that a majority  53   thought that the lockdown measures should be tightened, with only 6  thinking that the measures should be relaxed.  i think we can conclude from this that although there may be a small amount of quarantine fatigue given the slight drop in strength of support for the lockdown measures between march 24th and april 9th, the public still remains overwhelmingly content with the measures at the moment, and there is evidence that at least one constituent country of the uk may support a tightening of the lockdown measures. 	
can pregnant or postpartum women living with hiv transmit the covid-19 virus to their unborn child or infant  answer there are few data on the clinical presentation of covid-19 in specific populations, such as children and pregnant women 13  but findings from a small published study suggest that there is currently no evidence for intrauterine infection caused by vertical transmission in women who develop covid-19 pneumonia in late pregnancy 14 . although no vertical transmission has been documented, transmission after birth via contact with infectious respiratory secretions is a concern. infants born to mothers with suspected, probable, or confirmed covid-19 should be fed according to standard infant feeding guidelines 15 , while applying necessary precautions for infection prevention and control  ipc . as with all confirmed or suspected covid-19 cases, symptomatic mothers who are breastfeeding or practicing skin-to-skin contact or kangaroo mother care should practice respiratory hygiene, including during feeding  for example, use of a medical mask when near a child if the mother has respiratory symptoms , perform hand hygiene before and after contact with the child, and routinely clean and disinfect surfaces with which the symptomatic mother has been in contact 16 . q a on covid-19, pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding	
how long does the virus live on an object like a dollar bill  answer depending on the type of surface, the virus can stay on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days, according to the who. a recent study by scientists in the u.s. found that viable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air, up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to two to three days on plastic and stainless steel.   however, a subsequent report from the cdc found that genetic material from the virus can live on surfaces for more than two weeks. the cdc found traces of the virus  rna, not the coronavirus itself, on surfaces in the cabins of both symptomatic and asymptomatic infected passengers on the diamond princess cruise ship - 17 days after passengers had left the cabins.  it is possible that you can become infected if you touch your face after touching a surface or object that has the virus on it, according to the cdc. but scientists do not think surfaces are the main way that the virus spreads  the most common form of infection is from respiratory droplets spread by a person is cough or sneeze, the cdc reports.  meanwhile, the who says it is very unlikely that the virus will persist on a surface after being moved, traveled and exposed to different conditions and temperatures. that means the virus cannot spread through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting coronavirus cases.  at the same time, the who is reportedly encouraging people to use as many digital payment options as possible. viruses can survive on hard surfaces like coins for days in some cases. u.s dollars, a blend of fabric and paper, are harder for viruses to stick to.	
would nature, science or other leading academic journals prioritize publishing work on covid-19, the novel coronavirus that has caused more than 3k deaths so far  if so, has this happened before in the past, during another crisis   answer absolutely. journals are ways of disseminating scientific information, and they do take into account what is of current interest.  more specifically, however: both science and nature do not just publish scientific articles, but also commentary and news stories. for example, in science they are in the  news  and  perspectives  parts of the magazine, and they definitely cover current events. as, if i may add, they should. 	
this community wiki explains the current restrictions by the united states of america on the entry of individuals who may pose a risk of transmission of the novel coronavirus discovered recently in wuhan city, hubei, people is republic of china.  answer this answer currently lists nationwide entry restrictions imposed by the united states federal  national  government. a majority of states as well as counties, municipalities, towns, and cities have imposed entry bans or automatic quarantine-upon-entry orders as well as stay-at-home orders that may prevent your intended travel. this answer cannot index all of these orders, which have slight differences, technicalities, and effective dates that must be consulted to determine if your planned travel activity is allowed under state and local law. nbc news provides a basic overview as of april 5, 2020. additionally, travelers should be aware that their home countries consulates in the us may not be operating normally.  under the new rules, all flights carrying at least one non-crew passenger that has been physically present anywhere in mainland china, iran, the schengen area, or the common travel area  uk/ireland  within the past 14 days must land at one of the following airports:   jfk - new york, ny ord - chicago, il sfo - san francisco, ca sea - seattle/tacoma, wa hnl - honolulu, hi lax - los angeles, ca atl - atlanta, ga iad - washington, dc   the following airports were added february 3, 2020:   ewr - newark, nj dfw - dallas/fort worth, tx dtw - detroit, mi   the following airports were added march 14, 2020:   bos - boston, ma mia - miami, fl   additionally, such individuals cannot travel to the us at all unless they meet one of these exceptions:   us citizens and nationals lawful permanent residents  green card holders  spouses of citizens or lprs parents of unmarried citizens/lprs under 21 siblings of citizens/lprs, both unmarried and under 21 children, foster children, and adoptees of citizens/lprs air and sea crew members diplomats and foreign officials those granted exceptions by high-level officials   upon arrival, such excepted passengers will be subject to public health screenings by us public health service personnel. at a press briefing on jan. 31, 2020  transcript , health and human services secretary alex azar announced that individuals who have been to hubei province in the 14 days preceding entry will be sent to a 14-day quarantine, and individuals who have been to other parts of mainland china in the 14 days preceding entry will self-monitor for symptoms for 14 days at home. this is the first major federal quarantine action since the 1960s.  this action does not affect aliens  immigrants or nonimmigrants  already in the us. it does not cancel or revoke valid visas, though it temporarily prevents their use and may prevent the issuance of new visas in some cases.  additionally, entering the us through land borders from canada or mexico is limited to  essential travel :   us citizens and permanent residents returning to the us travel for medical purposes travel to attend educational institutions travel to work in the us travel for emergency response and public health purposes lawful cross-border trade official government or diplomatic travel us armed forces and their family returning to the us military-related travel   questions and answers  does this include only mainland china, or other territories as well  the 14-day rule does not apply the special administrative regions of hong kong and macau. it does apply to the disputed province of tibet. it does not apply to taiwan, the republic of china, which is claimed by the people is republic of china but is not functionally a part of that country.  does this include british territories as well  the proclamation covering the uk excludes  overseas territories outside of europe . this seems to mean that gibraltar and the crown dependencies are included, but other british territories are excluded.  do the us-canada and us-mexico border restrictions apply to air travel  not at this time.  when do these restrictions take effect    for china: february 2, 2020 at 5:00pm est for iran: march 2, 2020 at 5:00pm est for the schengen area: march 13, 2020 at 11:59pm edt. for the common travel area: march 16, 2020 at 11:59pm edt. land border restrictions: march 20, 2020 at 11:59pm edt.   where are these regulations found  the department of homeland security has a page on air travel restrictions, a fact sheet, and a list of news and updates. the cdc has a page on procedures for travelers from the affected countries.  the recent extension of restrictions to the common travel area, consisting of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and the republic of ireland, was announced by us vice president pence at a press conference saturday the 14th. official regulations have yet to be promulgated.  regulations on flights arriving in the us needing to be redirected to certain airports, published in the federal register:   for china: this document, with additional airports provided in this document for iran: this document for the schengen area: this document with additional airports for the uk and ireland: this document   the presidential proclamations banning entry of certain sub-classes of these individuals:   for china: here for iran: here for the schengen area: here for the uk and ireland: here   dhs has announcements for the us-canada and us-mexico land border restrictions, and the rules can be found in the federal register:   for us-canada land border: this document for us-mexico land border: this document   how long will these restrictions last  the restrictions will remain in effect until further notice from the government. with respect to the entry ban specifically, the secretary of health and human services is to advise the president at least every 15 days whether or not the ban should be changed or cancelled. the land border restrictions last until april 20, 11:59pm edt.  who made this decision, why, and what is there authority to do so  the secretary of homeland security made the decision to impose new travel restrictions. the secretary has the legal authority to designate the places at which flights inbound to the us may land for inspection. the secretary decided that this measure was necessary to prevent serious harm to the national security.  the president has the authority to suspend the entry of aliens into the us as needed for national security. president trump found that the federal government is incapable of monitoring all of the 14,000 daily travels between china and the us. therefore, this rule is needed to protect the public health and safety of america.  the cdc has authority to enact quarantines under the public health service act.  what if i do not comply with these rules  if you lie to officials about your presence in china to avoid the regulations, you could face serious immigration consequences including expedited removal from the country and a permanent inadmissibility in the future. if you attempt to escape quarantine, the government may use lawful force to prevent you from doing so. 	
what about people who have existing respiratory conditions like asthma etc. do they need to wear a mask  answer what about people who have existing respiratory conditions like asthma etc. do they need to wear a mask  people with asthma or any other respiratory conditions should wash their hands frequently, minimise their social interactions and avoid going to crowded places where there is a higher chance of getting infected.	
can humans become infected with the covid-19 from an animal source  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in animals. occasionally, people get infected with these viruses which may then spread to other people. for example, sars-cov was associated with civet cats and mers-cov is transmitted by dromedary camels. possible animal sources of covid-19 have not yet been confirmed.   to protect yourself, such as when visiting live animal markets, avoid direct contact with animals and surfaces in contact with animals. ensure good food safety practices at all times. handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care to avoid contamination of uncooked foods and avoid consuming raw or undercooked animal products.	
i understand that we say something as a gold standard when it involves human intervention/judgement/review.  but can someone help me understand what is the difference between probabilistic gold standard and deterministic gold standard.  for ex: patient has cancer or not - binary response - deterministic gold standard which can be provided by humans.  whereas patient has 60  chance of being a cancer and 40  chance of not being a cancer. am i right to understand that this is called as probabilistic gold standard but this can not be produced by humans right   can any human/doctor for example, say this patient has 60  chance of being a cancer and 40   chance of not being a cancer   answer no, deterministic probability is when you know for certain. if a person does not have a diagnosis, then he does not have the disease/condition. doctors are not supposed to give a probability but we as human beings always like to know the likelihood.  for example, person a who is 27 years old who has the coronavirus is highly unlikely to die of the virus but it is not impossible. 	
how long the 2019-ncov can survive on a dry surface  answer there is currently no data available on stability of 2019-ncov on surfaces. data from laboratory studies on sars-cov and mers-cov have shown that stability in the environment depends on several factors including relative temperature, humidity, and surface type. who continues to monitor existing evidence around ncov and will update when such evidence is available.	
what is the role multi-month prescriptions and dispensing for antiretrovirals and other medicines  answer clinically stable adults, children, adolescents and pregnant and breastfeeding women as well as members of key populations  people who inject drugs, sex workers, men who have sex with men, transgender people and people living in prisons and closed settings  can benefit from simplified antiretroviral therapy delivery models which include multi-month prescriptions and dispensing  3-6 month supply  which will reduce the frequency of visits to clinical settings and ensures continuity of treatment during possible disruption of movements during the coronavirus outbreak. similar consideration should be given to providing people who are clinically stable on methadone or buprenorphine substitution therapy with an increased possibility for take-home medications to reduce additional burden on the health sector.	
dr. raoult, who promotes hydroxychloroquine, has some really intriguing statement about statistics in the biomedical field:    it is counterintuitive, but the smaller the sample size of a clinical test, the more significant its results are. the differences in a sample of 20 people may be more significant than in a sample of 10,000 people. if we need such a sample, there is a risk of being wrong. with 10,000 people, when the differences are small, sometimes they do not exist.    is this a false statement in statistics  if so, is it therefore also false in the biomedical field  on which basis can we refute it properly, by a confidence interval   dr. raoult promotes hydroxychloroquine as a cure for covid-19, thanks to an article about a study on 24 patients. his claims have been repeated a lot because of for this study, but mainly in the mainstream media, not in the scientific press.  in machine learning, the scikit workflow states that before choosing any model, you need a dataset with at least 50 samples, whether it be for a simple regression, or the most advance clustering technique, etc., which is why i find this statement really intriguing.    edit: some of the answers below make the assumption of no result bias. they deal with the concept of power and effect size. however it seems there is a bias in dr. raoult data. the most striking being removing data for the dead, for the reason they could not provide data for the entire duration of the study.   my question remains however focused on the impact of using a small sample size.   source of the statement about statistics in a french magazine reference to the scientific paper in question.   answer i agree with many of the other answers here but think the statement is even worse than they make it out to be.   the statement is an explicit version of an implicit claim in many shoddy analyses of small datasets. these hint that because they have found a significant result in a small sample, their claimed result must be real and important because it is  harder  to find a significant effect in a small sample. this belief is simply wrong, because random error in small samples means that any result is less trustworthy, whether the effect size is large or small. large and significant effects are therefore more likely to be of the incorrect magnitude and more importantly, they can be in the wrong direction. andrew gelman refers to these usefully as notype s  errors  estimates whose sign is wrong  as opposed to notype m  errors  estimates whose magnitude is wrong . combine this with the file-drawer effect  small, non-significant results go unpublished, while large, significant ones are published  and you are most of the way to the replication crisis and a lot of wasted time, effort and money.   thanks to  adrian below for digging up a figure from gelman that illustrates this point well:     this may seem to be an extreme example but the point is entirely relevant to the argument made by raoult.  	
are college students eligible to receive the checks    answer if college students are at least 17 years old and are claimed as a dependent on their parents  return, their family would not receive any payment amount for them. a college student who filed his or her own return and was not claimed as a dependent on his or her parents  return would qualify for the rebates.	
should all americans be under stay-at-home orders  answer  we really should be,  said dr. anthony fauci, a member of the white house coronavirus task force.    if you look at what is going on across the country, i just do not understand why we are not doing that.   president donald trump has declined to give a nationwide stay-at-home order.  more than 40 states have stay-at-home orders, which generally allow exceptions for grocery shopping, helping a sick loved one or getting outdoor exercise away from other people.  but states with fewer cases of coronavirus also need to be on high alert, fauci said.    if you just look at those  places  and say, nothere are very little infections in this area or that area, we do not have to worry about it,  you are making a big mistake,  he said.  those are tinders that can turn into big fires. 	
i just had my schengen visa appointment this morning in the uk and paid 300 pounds for my schengen fees, swisscare schengen insurance, and roundtrip nonrefundable flight tickets with swiss air. however, as i am a exchange student from the u.s., my u.s. university just this afternoon hours after my morning appointment  announced that all exchange students needed to return back to the u.s. immediately due to the recent coronavirus outbreak. i am wondering if i can get any refunds for what i have already paid   answer insurance premium  you can cancel the insurance at any time before the coverage begins. the company website says    before the beginning of coverage, ... you can request a full refund at any time.    visa application fee  your visa fee is probably lost, but you might try asking if you can adjust your application dates. i would not hold my breath.  air fare  rebooking  subject to some conditions, you can probably rebook the air tickets without change fees:    swiss will waive its rebooking fees for all newly booked flights worldwide with immediate effect and until march 31 and offer a one-off free rebooking. for existing bookings, the new waiver policy will apply worldwide to all flights booked by march 5 with a departure date up to april 30, 2020. passengers will thus be able to rebook their flight ticket once to a new date up to december 31, 2020 without incurring any rebooking fee.   as noted by mark johnson in a comment, this policy applies to the entire lufthansa group.  refund  if you are lucky enough that your flight is cancelled, however, you might get a refund:    for cancelled flights: if you have booked through swiss.com or a service centre and you do not want to rebook your flight ticket, you can refund your ticket. to do so, please complete the refund form.    if you booked through an  online  travel agency, please contact the travel agency.   i say  might  because i do not know whether you would be able to get a refund if the flight is cancelled after you rebook it.  taxes and fees  even if you cannot recover your airfare, you should be entitled to a refund of certain taxes and fees for flights that you did not actually take.  possible insurance claims  if you have any travel insurance or other general insurance, you may want to look at whether it would cover any losses you incur. again, i would not hold my breath, but it is better to check now rather than to find out after the claim deadline has passed that you might have been eligible for reimbursement.  the swisscare schengen insurance seems not to include trip cancellation coverage, but i did not look very closely.  	
across the world, the current pandemic, and various government responses to it will impact on parties abilities to perform their obligations under a contract.   what are the legal implications of this   answer force majeure  an event like the current covid-19 event is what is known as a force majeure event  a latin term meaning  superior force . it refers to an event that is beyond the control of the parties to a contract such as war, civil disturbance, acts of god and disease.  common law jurisdictions  in common law jurisdictions  most of the english-speaking world , force majeure is not a legal doctrine but a creature of the particular contract. that is, the extent to which a contract does or does not deal with such events is the extent to which such events apply to that particular contract. for example, a construction contract may specify that a contractor is responsible for the care, protection and reinstatement of the works unless damage is caused by war. so, if the damage is caused by war the principal bears the risk but if it is caused by, say, flood, the contractor bears the risk.  if a contract is silent on the matter  in general or in the specific  then the parties obligations remain unchanged by the event and failure to comply is a breach of contract. for example, absent a provision in a contract, in the current pandemic:   if a supplier is contracted to supply a component that was made in a foreign country and that cannot now be sourced from there  they will be in breach of their contract if they do not supply it. if it can be sourced from a local manufacturer at twice the price of the foreign source then that is the contractor is loss. if a company is contracted to provide engineering services and their staff cannot travel  either because they are sick or because of government restrictions  then they will be in breach of their contract and the principal can seek damages. if a construction contractor is obliged to finish by a given date and the government closes all construction sites, they will be in breach if they do not complete by that date notwithstanding.   these may seem to be unjust outcomes but, at the end of the day, somebody in the contract has to carry the cost of force majeure events and the development of the common law has left it for the parties to decide who. that is, at the time of negotiating the contract, the law allows that if the parties wanted to consider the risks of say, a pandemic, and spell out whose risk that was, they were free to do so and if they did not that is their own fault - in the absence of such allocation, the parties must do what the contract says they must do. common law jurisdictions have traditionally not seen it as the role of government to interfere in the details of private contracts.  common law has a much narrower doctrine of frustration but this requires that the principal purpose of the contract be impossible to perform, not merely harder or more expensive to perform. even much harder or much more expensive.  civil law  in civil law jurisdictions  continental europe with their ex-colonies and most of asia , force majeure is a legal doctrine.   it is a defence to liability where the defendant:   had nothing to do with the event - this pandemic would fit, is unpredictable - it is not certain that the pandemic was unpredictable. there have been pandemics before and many organisations around the world exist specifically to respond to them. lest this seems needlessly pedantic, there have been cases decided that because a flood occurred 69 years ago, this flood was predictable  similarly, an avalanche 50 years ago rendered this one predictable. if predictable, then the defendant is obliged to have prepared for it. the consequences must have been unpreventable.   so, even though it exists in civil law it is not a get out of jail free card.  international law  the unidroit principles encompass force majeure as follows:    non-performance by a party is excused if that party proves that the non-performance was due to an impediment beyond its control and that it could not reasonably be expected to have taken the impediment into account at the time of the conclusion of the contract or to have avoided or overcome it or its consequences.      	
will schools be dismissed if there is an outbreak in my community  answer depending on the situation, public health officials may recommend community actions to reduce exposures to covid-19, such as school dismissals. read or watch local media sources that report school dismissals or and watch for communication from your child is school. if schools are dismissed temporarily, discourage students and staff from gathering or socializing anywhere, like at a friend is house, a favorite restaurant, or the local shopping mall.	
after recovering from coronavirus, does a person have long-term immunity to the virus  answer it is too early to know for sure. but other coronaviruses, like ones that cause the common cold, might give us clues.   with  common cold coronaviruses, you do not actually have immunity that lasts for very long, and so we do not know the answer with this specific coronavirus,  said dr. celine gounder, a professor of medicine and infectious diseases at the new york university school of medicine.   that is actually going to be one of the challenges with designing a vaccine is how do you actually cause the immunity to last long enough to protect you. 	
how long does the covid-19 infection last  answer the infection period for the virus will vary from person to person. mild symptoms in an otherwise healthy individual may resolve over just a few days. similar to influenza, for an individual with other ongoing health issues, such as a respiratory condition, recovery may take weeks and in severe cases could be potentially fatal.	
quote:    we found 4 insertions in the spike glycoprotein  s  which are unique to the 2019-ncov and are not present in other coronaviruses. importantly, amino acid residues in all the 4 inserts have identity or similarity to those in the hiv-1 gp120 or hiv-1 gag. interestingly, despite the inserts being discontinuous on the primary amino acid sequence, 3d-modelling of the 2019-ncov suggests that they converge to constitute the receptor binding site. the finding of 4 unique inserts in the 2019-ncov, all of which have identity/similarity to amino acid residues in key structural proteins of hiv-1 is unlikely to be fortuitous in nature.   source: http://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.01.30.927871v1    i know this is a preprint paper and it is not yet peer reviewed, but can someone tell me what the implications are if this is true  does this mean that the virus is artificially constructed   answer   update: the article has now been withdrawn with the following note:    this paper has been withdrawn by its authors. they intend to revise it  in response to comments received from the research community on their  technical approach and their interpretation of the results. if you  have any questions, please contact the corresponding author.     this is very odd, and will require a rigorous investigation, but my initial reaction is one of scepticism. considering just the 1st insert, the insert sequence is gtngtkr, short at just 7 amino acids. a simple blastp vs nr did not find perfect matches to hiv sequences, but did reveal 100  identity across the full sequence length to  50 other short protein sequences, which could be spurious  chance  hits of course. many of the top 100 hits are against eukaryotic sequences, for example one is against pristionchus pacificus, a type of nematode worm  see alignment below . someone needs to do a proper peer review of this preprint before any conclusions are drawn from it.   gt tank-1  pristionchus pacificus  sequence id: pdm74036.1 length: 2481  range 1: 1474 to 1480  score:24.0 bits 49 , expect:2477,  method:,  identities:7/7 100  , positives:7/7 100  , gaps:0/7 0    query 1 gtngtkr 7  gtngtkr sbjct 1474 gtngtkr 1480     update 1: things are moving fast. there are now 10 comments under the preprint, all of them critical of the idea that these inserts are meaningfully similar to hiv-1 sequences for the reason i outlined above  i.e. short sequences with many hits against organisms from across the tree of life  and additional points, such as small insertions being quite normal evolution for rna viruses. there are also similar critiques on twitter and biorxiv has added the following disclaimer header to their website:    biorxiv is receiving many new papers on coronavirus 2019-ncov. a  reminder: these are preliminary reports that have not been  peer-reviewed. they should not be regarded as conclusive, guide  clinical practice/health-related behavior, or be reported in news  media as established information.   i have never seen such rapid  and unanimous  post-publication peer review before. it is therefore already  just 1 day after publication  fairly clear that at least some claims in this study are completely false and there is no good evidence to support the claim that the 2019-ncov have acquired sequences from hiv or evidence to suggest the virus is engineered. 	
what cleaning products should i use to protect against covid-19  answer clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces such as tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks. if surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection. to disinfect, most common epa-registered household disinfectants will work. see cdc is recommendations for household cleaning and disinfection.	
there is such piece of the dialog between journalist and the doctor  in the middle of an interview about coronavirus : -if somebody is coughing on the bus should you get off  -no, getting off is not gonna help.  why   answer there are three possibilities when someone is coughing on the bus:   they do not have coronavirus -- or even a virus at all. i coughed a lot when my lungs were full of tumours. some people cough when their asthma is acting up. this is by far the most common case. they do have coronavirus and are not wearing a mask. you are more than 2 metres away from them. this is most of the bus, even in the unlikely event that someone on the bus is infected.  they do have coronavirus, are not wearing a mask, and are less than 2 metres from you. droplets may already have landed on you. getting off will not stop that.   while on the bus, do not touch your face. when you get off the bus, sanitize your hands or wash them with soap and water if you can. now it no longer matters whether droplets landed on you.  notice that the cdc advice does not say  if you find yourself near someone coughing, get away from them as soon as you can.  doing so is either unnecessary  first two bullets  or will not help  last bullet - it is too late, but handwashing will save you anyway.  	
what preventive measures can be taken  answer the disease can be transmitted from person to person, usually through droplets during sneezing or coughing. to prevent the spread of the virus, the who recommends washing hands regularly, covering the mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, and thoroughly cooking meat and eggs. it also suggests avoiding close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness. more...	
can i get coronavirus from a package sent from china  answer no.  the new coronavirus cannot be transmitted through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting covid-19 cases,  the world health organization says.    even though the new coronavirus can stay on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days  depending on the type of surface , it is very unlikely that the virus will persist on a surface after being moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperatures,  who said.   again, the best ways to prevent transmission is to stay 6 feet away from others, thoroughly wash your hands, and disinfect surfaces with epa-approved products.	
from  answers to  a related question, the who had mostly changed their public stance on the human-to-human transmission of covid-19 after jan 22, while giving mostly  negative signals  on this matter of human-to-human transmission before jan 22.  interestingly, on jan 17, the european centre for disease prevention and control  ecdc  put out a rapid report saying that:     the occurrence of a few cases having no history of contact with the implicated market  or other any similar market suggests the possibility of the infection source being more widely distributed, or of human-to-human transmission similar to other coronaviruses such as sars-cov and mers-cov. the occurrence of a few family clusters also supports this latter hypothesis. however, there is currently no knowledge on the transmission mode or risk factors for transmission. furthermore, there is no information on the disease spectrum or risk factors for severity. in light of these unknowns, we cannot exclude the possibility of low-level virus circulation in the wuhan community and thus the possibility of other clusters occurring in the near future.  ...       there is a high likelihood of case importation in countries with the greatest volume of people travelling to and from wuhan  i.e. countries in asia .  there is a low likelihood of importation of cases in eu/eea countries, due to the less extensive traffic of people with wuhan.      for comparison, what did the us cdc say on this matter  human-to-human transmission  within this period  i.e between jan 14 and 21 , and did they also asses back then  like the ecdc did  the likelihood of importation into the us     insofar i was able to find, by jan 31, the us cdc was clearly convinced of human-to-human transmission:    on january 31, 2020, cdc published updated pui guidance  8  in response to the evolving global epidemiology of 2019-ncov, including the rapid geographic expansion and documentation of person-to-person transmission  9 . updated guidance emphasizes 2019-ncov testing for symptomatic persons in close contact with patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-ncov infection, persons returning from hubei province in addition to wuhan city, and persons from mainland china requiring hospitalization because of fever and lower respiratory tract illness. additional refinements to this approach likely will be needed in the future as understanding of 2019-ncov epidemiology continues to improve.   but what did they say roughly two weeks earlier, before the who had confirmed human-to-human transmission   answer on january 17th, the cdc announced that covid-19 screening would begin at  three u.s. airports that receive most of the travelers from wuhan, china: san francisco  sfo , new york  jfk , and los angeles  lax  airports.   they also state in this press release that:    cdc is actively monitoring this situation for pertinent information  about the source of outbreak, and risk for further spread through  person-to-person or animal-to-person transmission. cdc may adjust  screening procedures and other response activities as this outbreak  investigation continues and more is learned about the newly emerging  virus. entry screening alone is not a guarantee against the possible  importation of this new virus but is an important public health tool  during periods of uncertainty and part of a multilayered government  response strategy. as new information emerges, cdc will reassess entry  screening measures and could scale activities up or down accordingly.   this indicates that an assessment of the likelihood of importation of the virus into the us was completed, and a decision was made that only the airports with the largest amount of traffic needed to be screened. they do however note that this is not a guarantee that the virus will not be imported. further on in the briefing, they mention that:    china health officials report that most of the patients infected with  2019-ncov have had exposure to a large market where live animals were  present, suggesting this is a novel virus that has jumped the species  barrier to infect people. chinese authorities additionally report that  several hundred health care workers caring for outbreak patients are  being monitored and no spread of this virus from patients to health  care workers has been seen. they report no sustained spread of this  virus in the community, however there are indications that some  limited person-to-person spread may have occurred. cdc is responding  to this outbreak out of an abundance of caution, ready to detect  people infected with 2019-cov.   this briefing suggests that while the cdc was preparing for human-to-human transmission to be confirmed, and may have even thought that this was likely, it did not have the data to confirm this.  later on, on the 21st, the cdc released another briefing after the first covid-19 positive patient was identified in the us. the briefing notes that the patient returned from china on the 15th, before the screening mentioned above was implemented. this release, however also does not state that human-to-human transmission is confirmed, but mentions that    while originally thought to be spreading from animal-to-person, there  are growing indications that limited person-to-person spread is  happening. it is unclear how easily this virus is spreading between  people.   at this point the cdc also implemented screening at two more airports, atlanta and chicago.  it seems clear, therefore, that the cdc did not have access to data which confirmed human-to-human transmission, although the steps taken to implement health screening at airports, and the advice given to healthcare providers on january 8th indicates that it certainly thought that the likelihood of this was great. clearly the health screening also proves that spread from wuhan was seen as a possibility, although we can infer from the fact that this was initially only set up at three airports that this was either not seen as a large possibility, or that the spread via air-travel was not expected to be high enough to warrant a complete lock-down. 	
is there a cure  answer there is currently no cure for the novel coronavirus. and while research is underway, it could be more than a year before a vaccine becomes publicly available.	
are gloves a good way to protect myself  answer gloves become a second skin. they themselves could become contaminated  do not touch your face   and depending on how they are made, they might have holes. while gloves may be helpful if someone in your household becomes sick, reducing the amount of times you have to wash your hands, the most effective intervention is just washing your hands.	
how long does the virus live on different surfaces  a friend gets my paper and shopping, and i have meals delivered - how do i unpack  answer covid-19 is primarily spread in tiny droplets released from the nose and mouth of an infected person as they cough. the most common way for the virus to be transmitted appears to be through close contact with an infected person.  however, evidence suggests the virus can live for an extended time outside of the body, including on surfaces. if you touch a contaminated surface and then your nose or mouth, there is a possibility you could become infected.  a study published last month suggests the virus survives longest on plastic and stainless steel surfaces - up to two to three days - and can live for up to 24 hours on cardboard. however, over that time the virus is likely to become less powerful.  where possible, it is a good idea to either disinfect the packaging with kitchen spray or discard it before washing your hands with soap and water.  for items like a newspaper that can not be washed, the likelihood of transmission is low, but it still makes sense to practise regular hand washing.  bearing in mind the virus is durability, it is also worth regularly disinfecting plastic and stainless steel surfaces such as door handles.	
how likely are you to die from the virus    answer of the more than 586,000 people who have been infected worldwide, more than 26,000 have died. that is a death rate of about 4.6 . the who has previously estimated the rate at about 3.4 .    the death rate, however, varies widely based on age, health and geographic location. people who are older or who have preexisting conditions are at higher risk of severe illness.	
i am wondering how much covid-19 affected scientific productivity, if it affected productivity negatively at all  c.f. newton actually did a lot of his most important work while the university of cambridge was closed due to plague .  i am using the rate at which papers are published on arxiv as a proxy for  scientific productivity , fully aware that it is not a perfect proxy and probably lags actual productivity by quite a bit. if country-specific statistics are available, e.g.  the number of publications by authors from italy changed by     on 9 march 2020, the date the lockdown started , that is even better.  answer arxiv posts its monthly submission statistics here. it is noisy data even in the absence of viruses, so i can not tell if there is an effect yet or not. then again, i am no statistician. extrapolating the march data as of today  march 19th , it is at least set to be larger than the february number of submissions, as is typical for march submissions.  however, even if the number of monthly arxiv submissions is to be considered a good proxy, it will likely lag by more time than we have seen so far. yes, closures, adapting to online classes, and changed schedules will delay new experiments and other activities. however, finishing writing up manuscripts already in the pipeline, or analyzing already collected data are still productive tasks that will lead to new submissions for quite a while. not to mention people such as myself, who can continue our theoretical/numerical work from home. 	
how to put on, use, take off and dispose of a mask  answer remember, a mask should only be used by health workers, care takers, and individuals with respiratory symptoms, such as fever and cough.before touching the mask, clean hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and watertake the mask and inspect it for tears or holes.orient which side is the top side  where the metal strip is .ensure the proper side of the mask faces outwards  the coloured side .place the mask to your face. pinch the metal strip or stiff edge of the mask so it moulds to the shape of your nose.pull down the mask is bottom so it covers your mouth and your chin.after use, take off the mask  remove the elastic loops from behind the ears while keeping the mask away from your face and clothes, to avoid touching potentially contaminated surfaces of the mask. discard the mask in a closed bin immediately after use.perform hand hygiene after touching or discarding the mask - use alcohol-based hand rub or, if visibly soiled, wash your hands with soap and water.	
can i get these loans and unemployment  answer this was the most commonly asked question. the cares act not only provides relief for small business owners through loans but also allows the self-employed, independent contractors and part-time workers to collect unemployment benefits. that initially seemed like double dipping to me. but as a colleague in the twitterverse pointed out, it could make sense if your unemployment is covering personal expenses while your eidl and/or ppp is covering other operating expenses. for example, if you are a restaurant owner, you have to pay for a mortgage, paid leave and supply chain disruptions, while we all wait out stay-at-home orders. but you also have to buy groceries and pay your home utility bills. if you can only get a loan to cover business expenses, you may still need unemployment benefits to pay your personal expenses. keep in mind, the details for unemployment benefits -- eligibility rules, benefit amounts, length of payments, etc. -- vary from state to state. in illinois, for instance, to maintain your eligibility for unemployment, you must be able to work, you have to be available to accept a job and you have to be looking for work. if the additional loan funds allow you to keep running your business, it may be hard to demonstrate that you are out of work. i have already heard from a few self-employed people who have applied for unemployment--and had widely varying results. most likely the rules will become clearer in time, as the states decide what will and will not be allowed.	
just checking some stock prices:   google: 1530  before the crises. now at 1100  --  -28  amazon: 2170  before the crises. now at 1910  --  -12  microsoft: 190  before the crises. now at 152  --  -20    my assumption is that amazon is more resisting because delivery services are very popular during these days. however, cannot see why microsoft is more resilient compared to google.   answer there may not be one definitive reason, but i will throw out one possibility. many employees are working form home these days, so cloud services like teams, skype, and office are seeing increased usage since the pandemic began. teams alone saw a 700  increase in usage during a one-month period in italy.   amazon is probably also benefiting from web services, but i would presume that online shopping is helping more than that. 	
i am planning to travel to hanoi from tokyo in the beginning of april for a couple of days. but news websites like this mention that travellers from japan and south korea will be quarantined on entry while some other websites say that travellers from both these countries have been barred to enter.  is there any official or government source where such information can be verified   answer the timatic news feed has a page dedicated to coronavirus restrictions. this information is provided by each national government to iata so that airlines can verify passenger documents and eligibility to enter or transit any given country.  currently for vietnam the restrictions are:    viet nam - published 19.02.2020      passengers who have been in or transited through china  people is rep.  in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter viet nam. this does not apply to passengers who travel for diplomatic or official purpose.      this does not apply to nationals of viet nam.  this does not apply to passengers who reside in viet nam.    passengers who travel for diplomatic or official purpose will undergo a medical examination at the border before allowed to enter viet nam.    	
what is the source of the virus  answer covid-19 is caused by a coronavirus called sars-cov-2. coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in people and may different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats, and bats. rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people and then spread between people. this occurred with mers-cov and sars-cov, and now with the virus that causes covid-19. more information about the source and spread of covid-19 is available on the situation summary: source and spread of the virus.	
i read on http://twitter.com/richardbarrow/status/1247426702214451201  mirror :    as a foreigner, it is a good idea to carry your passport around with you. some places like banks will not let foreigners inside unless you can prove that you have not been abroad recently. one american told me that she was not allowed in just because she was american  thailand   can a shopowner in thailand ban someone from entering their shop on the grounds of their citizenship   answer   can a shopowner in thailand ban someone from entering their shop on the grounds of their citizenship    the first tweet, explains the context properly:     i am at my local hospital this afternoon to get a medical certificate. my work permit expires soon and so i need to run around getting all the documents in order. at the hospital they wanted to check my passport before letting me in to see if i had been abroad recently.    thailand has been very popular with visitors for decades and if laws existed that discriminated against foreigners this would be commonly known.   so in this case the wouldiscrimination  probably not because of citizenship, but more about a faulty assumption that the virus is spread by foreigners. this will have nothing to do with thai law.  the  tweet  op quotes only another persons claim. the op states in the first tweet that they checked his passport only to see if he was abroad recently. so he did not share the same experience of the american. based on that, this second hand source  that can not be verified  is probably unreliable.   due to the present  global  uncertainties, caused by the coronavirus, one should look at the whole picture.     2020-02-04: coronavirus: chinese targeted as italians panic - bbc news  in italy and elsewhere, panic is spreading much faster than the coronavirus itself. chinese businesses are empty, shopkeepers are shutting down and chinese nationals are being targeted.      at a bar beside the trevi fountain, a notice was put up banning customers from china.     so the the situation described by the original  tweet  op is understandable, but the quoted  but not varified  second hand source as well as the events in italy are not.     the incidents have prompted condemnation from the italian authorities.  prime minister giuseppe conte reprimanded the regional governors, telling them that they were not competent to make such a call and that nothing justified such fear.     discrimination, solely due to citizenship, would be against human rights prevention of discrimination.   special cases may exist for prices that are subsidized and thus only for residents.   dual pricing was common in the czech republic until 1999, when it was ruled illegal  but still persisted . then a foreign resident had to supply proof of residency to avoid paying the higher price. 2007: illegal practice of dual pricing persists in czech republic   at the time we assumed that this was legal  it was certainly understandable , but it seems that was not the case.       are the  human rights prevention of discrimination  written down somewhere  also, who enforce them      universal declaration of human   united nations   human rights enforcement mechanisms of the united nations   escr-net   european convention on human rights - wikipedia    european court of human rights     how these international laws/conventions are implemented into national laws will differ from country to country.   for germany they are anchored into the constitution:    basic law for the federal republic of germany  article 25  primacy of international law    the general rules of international law shall be an integral part of federal law. they shall take precedence over the laws and directly create rights and duties for the inhabitants of the federal territory.   and are enforced by the federal constitutional court  bundesverfassungsgericht  and can be passed on to the european court of justice  or european court of human rights  should the need arise.   thailand: part of section 30 of the constitution of the kingdom of thailand 2007:     unjust discrimination against a person on the grounds of the difference in origin, race, language, sex, age, disability, physical or health condition, personal status, economic or social standing, religious belief, education or constitutionally political view, shall not be permitted.  	
can animals carry the virus that causes covid-19 on their skin or fur  answer at this time, there is no evidence that the virus that causes covid-19 can spread to people from the skin or fur of pets. talk to your veterinarian about the best ways to care for your pet.	
given that a man of 39 years without underlying health condition, is having chest discomfort and tightness, which is more discomfort during evening and night before fall asleep. he do not have cold and cough, nor have fever and he is physically active. my concern is that whether he is fighting with covid-19 infection. can covid-19 be damaging the lung without showing fever  thank you.  answer the range of symptoms for people infected with sars-cov-2 are extreme. there are reports of asymptomatic children with ct scans showing viral pneumonia.    among the paediatric patients in our study, just under a third were asymptomatic. moreover, a fifth had pneumonia only and needed radiographic examination to be identified.   with respect to the question of whether one can have ongoing pneumonic process without a fever, then yes, that is possible.  case 5 in the link below presented only with a runny nose and sore throat. fever is not mentioned as it is in the other cases so one assumes she was not febrile. but ct scan 3 days later showed ground-glass opacities. her throat swab was positive by pcr for sars-cov-2.  http://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/piis1473-3099 20 30198-5/fulltext  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/all.14289 	
is the check based on my 2018 or 2019 tax return    answer under the plan, individuals who earn  75,000 in adjusted gross income or less would get direct payments of  1,200 each. but which tax return is that based on   if you have filed for 2019, that is what it would based off of. if you have not, it would be based off of 2018.	
a number of countries are using test kits for detecting new cases of ncov  2019-coronavirus  and apparently china is running low.   what exactly is in a ncov  test kit  -- how does it work    surely they also differ, so in which way do they differ    answer the cdc has made available online its ncov test kit. briefly,the kit contains primers and probes for real-time reverse-transcriptase pcr, as well as instructions for appropriate use and  critically  controls and guidelines to avoid false positives and negatives. kits from different countries may use slightly different primers and probes, though since they are all working from the same sequences and the same principles they should be broadly quite similar.   explaining how quantitative pcr works and the details of the primers and probes is out of the scope of this se. a layman is introduction was written by john timmer at ars technica. 	
does drinking alcohol kill coronavirus  answer does drinking alcohol kill coronavirus  alcohol is no solution. if you consume a lot of alcohol, it can make you drowsy and can compromise your immunity. experts say that this might make you aspirate and that will make you susceptible to viruses.	
i can see the chain of spreading disease: humans usually get rabies from domestic animals, those usually get it from wild animals, wild animals in their turn get from the other wild animals and here i am stuck. well, so where do wild animals get it from initially   i know that rabies is a virus and it needs warm-blooded animals to live out. also according to wikipedia once an animal is effected it lasts, let is say, no longer than for 2 weeks.   in other words, does it mean that there is a constant population of rabid animals that exists in order to pass this virus from one animal to another every 2 week on the average   answer such viruses have a natural host, which might get sick, but is usually not killed by the virus. from there, the virus can get zoonotic  jump over species barriers  and infect other animals when it comes to contact. for rabies the reservoir hosts are different, for the us these are bats, skunks and racoons. for more details, have a look on this pdf.  another example for this is the sars virus  a corona virus  which most likely lives in bats naturally and has jumped from there onto birds and from there infected humans.  	
i have seen websites and videos that show how cancer cells can be destroyed using sound resonance oscillation. so has anyone heard of anyone who is in the field of sound resonance trying to capture the wavelength of the corona virus so we can create a sonogram machine to use against this virus pandemic   answer it is a nice idea. sadly it will not work but there is still some interesting physics involved.  as a general rule resonance is only an efficient way to transfer energy to an object if that object has a high q factor. a high q factor means the energy supplied builds up and increases the amplitude of the oscillation, and this may get large enough to damage the object. this is the  alleged  mechanism for the shattering of wine glasses by overenthusiastic sopranos. wine glasses have a high q and you can tell this by the way they ring for a while when you tap them. as a contrast, potatoes have a low q and do not ring when you tap them. so our sopranos would have a hard time shattering a potato.  the problem with using ultrasound to kill cells or viruses is that in general they are squishy low q objects like potatoes, not high q objects like wine glasses, and they do not store the energy of the sound efficiently enough for the amplitude of oscillation to build up to destructive levels. so the technique simply will not work.  ultrasound is used to kill tumours, but this does not work by resonance - the energy in the sound simply heats the cancer tissue and kills it. it is used for tumours because the sound can be focused onto the tumour where it causes local heating. this would not work for viral infections since the virus is distributed throughout the body not concentrated in one area onto which the sound can be targeted.  even if viruses were brittle like glass it would still be hard to make them resonate enough to be damaged when they are in a fluid like water. there are two reasons for this.  firstly water is much denser and much more viscous than air so it efficiently damps the vibrations of any objects moving in it. for example if you tap a glass underwater it will not ring as it does in air. so even objects that have a high q factor in air will have a drastically lower q factor in water. this applies to viruses in humans since as far as sound waves are concerned human tissue is little different from water.  secondly sound waves are a compression wave and they propagate by alternately compressing and expanding the water. the amount the water compresses and stretches is determined by the bulk modulus and this is relatively high. that means the amplitude of the wave is small unless the energy is very high, and consequently the mechanical deformation of objects in the water by the wave is small. this makes it hard to deform the virus enough to damage it. 	
do hand gels work  answer sometimes you might not be able to wash your hands with soap and water when you want to, for example while out and about, or while using public transport. professor devi sridhar told newsround:  hand gels are a fantastic way to clean your hands but they are not as good as soap and water.  nhs advice says people should use hand sanitiser gel if soap and water are not available.	
can humans become infected with the covid-19 from an animal source  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in animals. occasionally, people get infected with these viruses which may then spread to other people. for example, sars-cov was associated with civet cats and mers-cov is transmitted by dromedary camels. possible animal sources of covid-19 have not yet been confirmed. to protect yourself, such as when visiting live animal markets, avoid direct contact with animals and surfaces in contact with animals. ensure good food safety practices at all times. handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care to avoid contamination of uncooked foods and avoid consuming raw or undercooked animal products.	
is it safe to visit hospitals  answer is it safe to visit hospitals  yes, it is safe to go to hospitals as covid-19 patients are kept in separate isolation wards. the covid-19 virus does not spread very far. if you have covid-19 patients isolated in one area of the hospital then the virus will not reach the other area. nonetheless, hospitals are crowded during flu season, so try postponing your visit to the opd for routine checkups.	
can young people fall seriously ill  answer while much of the attention about who is most vulnerable to covid-19 has centred on the elderly and those with underlying medical conditions,  it can also affect young people.  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/people- under-40-make-up-one-third-of-canada-s-covid-19-cases-1.4872884   according to phac data, people in their 20s were responsible for 12 per cent of all confirmed covid-19 cases in canada as of march 30, and those aged 19 or younger made up 4 per cent of the country is total caseload.  dr. isaac bogoch said that everyone can be infected by the novel coronavirus and there is always a risk that some people will have a more severe infection.  however, he said older people and those with underlying medical conditions still have a greater risk of a severe outcome than younger individuals.   if we take a step back and look at the 30,000-foot view and look at who is more likely to get a severe infection, it is overwhelmingly those over the age of 60 and really, over the age of 80 years old,  he told ctv is your morning on march 20.  bogoch said the most important metric to look at when studying data about severe infections from this virus is death.   if you get infected, you either live or you die, it sounds morbid, but i think that is an extremely important distinction to make and if we look at death, it is overwhelmingly in those over 60 and disproportionately high in those over the age of 80,  he said.	
how can i know if i have the coronavirus and should go for a test  answer if you have symptoms and want to get tested, the cdc recommends calling your state or local health department or a medical provider.  not sure if you should get tested  the cdc website features a  self-checker  to help you make decisions about seeking medical care. the feature is not intended for the diagnosis or treatment of covid-19 and is intended only for people in the u.s.	
what are the symptoms of covid-19  answer the most common symptoms of covid-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. some people become infected but do not develop any symptoms and do not feel unwell. most people  about 80   recover from the disease without needing special treatment. around 1 out of every 6 people who gets covid-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. people with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention.	
can i exercise outside  what about going to the park  answer yes, but do not forget about social distancing.    regular exercise can help keep you physically and mentally healthy during the outbreak. you should feel free to talk a walk, go to the park and get outside, but maintain at least 6 feet between yourself and others during that time. do not pack into a crowded park, beach or hiking trail. instead, head to an area with fewer people or exercise at off-hours, when not as many people are out and about.    since covid-19 can live on hard surfaces, and most playgrounds are not cleaned and disinfected regularly, you may want to reconsider bringing your child there, especially if you live in an area with ongoing coronavirus transmissions. if you do decide to go to the playground, make sure your child stays at least 6 feet away from other children.	
will i be arrested if i step out of home  answer will i be arrested if i step out of home  no	
protection measures for persons who are in or have recently visited  past 14 days  areas where covid-19 is spreading answer follow the guidance outlined above  protection measures for everyone  self-isolate by staying at home if you begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache, low grade fever  37.3 c or above  and slight runny nose, until you recover. if it is essential for you to have someone bring you supplies or to go out, e.g. to buy food, then wear a mask to avoid infecting other people. why  avoiding contact with others and visits to medical facilities will allow these facilities to operate more effectively and help protect you and others from possible covid-19 and other viruses.    if you develop fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical advice promptly as this may be due to a respiratory infection or other serious condition. call in advance and tell your provider of any recent travel or contact with travelers. why  calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also help to prevent possible spread of covid-19 and other viruses.	
several counties in california have issued a shelter in place order due to the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. for example, see a santa clara is order here.  the order states that individuals have to shelter in place. however, it lists multiple exceptions. if a police officer or other authority empowered to enforce this law asks you why you are outside, do you have to tell why you are outside or does the officer have to have reasonable suspicion you are in violation of the shelter in place order in order to detain you  this seems to be in violation of the concept that exercising your rights does not give grounds for reasonable suspicion or probable cause. does an officer need probably cause that you are in violation of the order to arrest you  or is it assumed that if you do not tell the officer what you are doing outside then your behavior is in violation of the order   answer the principle of constitutional law is that in order to arrest you, the officer would need probable cause. certain acts are in themselves violations of the order  being closer to another person that 6 feet, illegal sneezing . walking in public does not per se constitute a violation. in order to briefly stop a person walking on the street  a  terry stop  , the officer needs a reasonable suspicion that the person is in violation of the law. that means there has to be a reason, and a gut feeling does not count. an officer would not  legally  be able to stop every person they see walking down the street / driving, and demand an explanation of where they are going. if a person is just aimlessly wandering down the strees with friends  even if they are sufficiently separated , that could suffice to justify a stop, given the limited legal excuses for being outside your home. 	
i was on vacation in the us for 3 weeks. i am a colombian citizen.   before i was to return on march 23 to colombia my flight was cancelled due to colombia closing its borders including to its citizens that were traveling overseas at the time. all international flights have been canceled.   what happens if my visa travel date expires before i can leave to go to colombia   answer you have 3 options.   your us entry could be still valid for a few months. usually, an entry is valid for 6 months. you can plan to stay in us till situation is clear and flights are open to colombia. it can be a few months. if your entry is expiring, you can apply for an extension. you can contact your embassy about the possibility of repatriation or any other help. even if normal flights are not allowed, repatriation with quarantine might be possible.  	
can you get the virus from eating food made by someone who was sick  answer probably not. for cooked food, heat likely inactivates the virus, though there has not been a study looking at the specific temperatures and conditions. of course there is the concern that your delivery person    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/nyregion/coronavirus-nyc-delivery- workers.html  who can not afford to stay home  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/nyregion/coronavirus-nyc-delivery- workers.html  has just touched the containers, so you should always wash your hands before eating.	
i am starting a phd abroad, but due to the covid-19 pandemic i cannot leave my country at the moment. my advisor has agreed that i can work remotely  starting later is not an option . while we can skype and most of my work can be done online, i am concerned that having no access to the department, not being able to attend seminars/workshops, and not being able to meet/talk to other students in person will put me at a big disadvantage.  i am keen not to spend these initial few months slacking off and want to catch any problems before it is too late. however, i have always found it difficult to judge my own progress when studying alone, and with a phd it seems that it will be especially hard as i need to learn a lot of skills in a new area. also, because my advisor seems like a very  nice  person who does not demand that his students work very hard, i am concerned that he will not tell me if i am underperforming.  would it be appropriate to raise this with my advisor, asking him to tell me if i am not doing as well as his students usually do  or are there any strategies for people working from home to judge if they are doing enough   answer yes, you should raise this issue, both with the advisor and with the university administration. students need some feedback on their work and it is the university is responsibility to provide a way for that to happen. they need to provide the channels and you need to find a way to use them.   but things are in a bit of chaos now, of course, and effective response can be slow to occur.   virtual seminars are possible using simple or sophisticated software. perhaps you can set up  or the university can  a group of students and a professor or two willing to have an online session regularly. it is not the same as face to face, but it can keep you engaged.   but at a minimum, write a lot and note where you have problems. ask a lot of questions, but make sure they are pretty focused. share what you write with your advisor, by email or by posting it somewhere.   ask your advisor directly how you are doing and ask explicitly for next steps. you will most likely get suggestions about reading. take a lot of notes on the readings and note things that puzzle you. ask about them.   if you are starting the research phase of the degree it is normally a fairly solitary effort in any case, but the advisor should be willing to review and respond to your efforts and your questions.  	
what is who is position on the use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine in the context of the covid-19 response  answer who is actively following the ongoing clinical trials that are being conducted in response to covid-19, including studies looking at the use of chloroquine and its derivative, hydroxychloroquine, for treatment and/or prevention. currently, there is insufficient data to assess the efficacy of either of these medicines in treating patients with covid-19, or in preventing them from contracting the coronavirus. chloroquine is currently recommended by who for the treatment of p. vivax malaria. in the context of the covid-19 response, the dosage and treatment schedules for chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine that are currently under consideration do not reflect those used for treating patients with malaria. the ingestion of high doses of these medicines may be associated with adverse or seriously adverse health outcomes. for public health emergencies, who has a systematic and transparent process for research and development  r d , including for clinical trials of drugs. the who  r d blueprint  for covid-19, initiated on 7 january 2020, aims to fast-track the availability of effective tests, vaccines and medicines that can be used to save lives and avert large-scale crises. who has also designed a set of procedures to assess the performance, quality and safety of medical technologies during emergency situations.	
elizabeth warren, the democratic senator from massachusetts, is generally considered a top contender to be joe biden is running mate. if she was elected vice president, she would have to resign her seat in the senate. how would her replacement be chosen   while i know the governor names an initial replacement, followed by a special election, but what determines the timing of this  can the governor is decision be overruled by the legislature    answer the  official  rule is     a special election  145-160 days after vacancy occurs. if a vacancy occurs after april 10 but on or before the 70th day before the regular state primary, the office shall appear on the regular state primary ballot. if a vacancy occurs after that time, the office shall appear on the state election ballot that november.     ...     in massachusetts a bill was passed in response to the death of senator edward kennedy and his request that the current law be changed. previous law in massachusetts called for a special election to be held, but not until five months after the vacancy occurs. the new law retains the special election, but permits the governor to appoint a temporary successor in the interim.   http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/vacancies-in-the-united-states-senate.aspx  in 2004, to prevent the republican governor from appointing a republican, the democrat legislature passed laws which mandated a special election. however in 2009, when ted kennedy died, there was a desire that the post should be filled promptly, and the law was amended so that the governor could make an interim appointment.  the timings are further complicated by the postponement of elections due to covid-19 restrictions. however it seems reasonably clear that    the governor can only appoint an interim senator. the governor cannot be overruled by the legislature, but the legislature can amend the law before the governor makes their choice. the timing of the special election is about 5 months after the post falls vacant.  	
since a plane is cabin keeps circulating air, will i get sick if another passenger is sick  answer most viruses do not spread easily on airplanes because of how the air circulates and is filtered, the cdc says.   modern commercial jets recirculate 10-50  of the air in the cabin, mixed with outside air.    the recirculated air passes through a series of filters 20-30 times per hour,  the cdc says.    furthermore, air generally circulates in defined areas within the aircraft, thus limiting the radius of distribution of pathogens spread by small-particle aerosols. as a result, the cabin air environment is not conducive to the spread of most infectious diseases.   still, try to avoid contact with anyone sneezing or coughing. and if you are feeling sick, cover your entire mouth and nose with the inside of your elbow when you cough or sneeze.	
is contact lens disinfecting solution effective against covid-19  answer   hydrogen peroxide-based systems for cleaning, disinfecting, and storing contact lenses should be effective against the virus that causes covid-19.  for other disinfection methods, such as multipurpose solution and ultrasonic cleaners, there is currently not enough scientific evidence to determine efficacy against the virus.   always use solution to disinfect your contact lenses and case to kill germs that may be present. handle your lenses over a surface that has been cleaned and disinfected.  find more information about how coronavirus spreads and how to protect yourself. visit cdc is contact lens website for more information on healthy contact lens wear and care.	
in the us senate on sunday, march 22nd, passage of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security  cares  act was blocked in a 47-47 vote. the vote was generally along party lines, with one exception: senate majority leader mitch mcconnell voted against the cloture measure alongside the democrats, despite arguing forcefully for the passage of the bill. i have noticed this with other bills and with harry reid before mcconnell, so it is not just this bill - it seems like a more common pattern.  why would the senate majority leader vote against cloture on a bill that they support  is it a procedural issue   answer while looking for more examples of this process, i stumbled upon the answer.   why is harry reid always voting against his own plans     forty u.s. senators voted to block a final vote on chuck hagel is nomination to be defense secretary. of those, 39 were republicans opposed to the nomination, at least for the moment. the other was harry reid. it was not that reid opposed hagel -- far from it. ...    so what gives  in articles like the one i wrote on the hagel filibuster, the short explanation we give is that reid voted no  for procedural reasons  or because a no vote  allows him to bring another cloture vote in the future.  ...    as sarah binder, a senate rules expert at george washington university, told me, it is not that the majority leader has to vote no. it is that somebody on the winning side of the cloture vote -- in this case, the side voting against cloture -- has to file a  motion to reconsider  if the matter is to be taken up again.  i suppose the broader parliamentary principle here is that it would be somewhat unfair to give someone on the losing side of a question a second bite at the apple,  binder explains. so the rules provide for senators whose opinion has changed to motion for another vote, whereas those whose opinion stays the same do not get to keep filing to reconsider.    reid, and other majority leaders before him, have developed a clever workaround: just change your vote at the last minute if it looks as though you are going to lose, then move to reconsider. in theory, any supporter of the bill or nomination in question could do the same, but traditionally it is been the majority leader.   senate rules say that after a failed cloture vote  ie. the bill did not get the 60 votes needed to overrule a filibuster , a  motion to reconsider   that is, a second attempt at cloture  can only be called by a member of the winning side of the vote. 	
i was recently accepted by a college or university. i was planning on graduating from high school soon and then enrolling in college. my high school has just announced that it will be closed for a reason such as the covid-19/coronavirus pandemic. will i still be able to start college    question limited to students who are already admitted.   answer ask them. you mentioned that they accepted you already. only they can tell you whether the admission process is affected by the recent events and whether they are willing to accomodate last minute changes to your academic schedule. 	
well, let is talk about treatments for people who would end up in the hospital with covid-19. the president and dr. anthony fauci had a kind of debate in a briefing last week about how near some kind of treatment drug might be. what is the latest here  what is actually available  answer that is right. well, the milken institute is tracking the development of a whole bunch of potential treatments and vaccines. they have identified literally dozens of different candidates in the works on both the vaccine side, the treatment side - over 40 different compounds being looked at for the vaccine. but a vaccine is definitely a ways off. i mean, 12 to 18 months is an optimistic estimate out there.  in regard to treatments, there are clinical trials underway to look at the safety, efficacy of different drugs, from antivirals to antibody treatments. with one candidate, an antiviral called remdesivir, some early results are expected later this spring, and there is a lot of hope out there. but obviously it is important to see what the studies find.	
from this website , we can pull out  100,000 from our 401k without penalty.    distributions taken from qualified retirement plans received during 2020  of up to  100,000 for covid-19 related purposes are allowed without a  10  penalty, taxable evenly over 3 years beginning with year of  distribution   what are the reasons not to cash out our 401k  in my opinion, my would greatly benefit to have this money in real estate or other investments. we have already saved up about a  150k for a house down payment, and having  100k more would allow us to buy a house in our area outright or with a very small mortgage. alternatively, we could put it into the s amp p500 or tbills, etc.  edit: by  other investments  i mean something like a roth ira, which can be invested in similar stuff but with better long term tax implications.   also, please note that prices of many investments will drop  so selling when its low is acceptable, assuming it is reinvested in something else that can also be purchased for cheap.  answer there are a couple reasons:   you do not qualify. from your link:    distributions taken from qualified retirement plans received during 2020 of up to  100,000 for covid-19 related purposes are allowed without a 10  penalty, taxable evenly over 3 years beginning with year of distribution, and may be recontributed within 3 years. related purposes include a covid-19 diagnosis for you, your spouse or dependent, and financial hardship as a result of business closures, reduced work hours, lay off, furlough, lack of child care or other factors as determined by the treasury secretary.   if this does not apply to you, you can not do this anyway. taxes. there is no penalty, but the withdrawal is still subject to taxes. you get to delay paying them, but they are at a higher rate than they would be if you withdrew at a slower rate and had no  or little  other income.   additionally, you say     alternatively, we could put it into the s amp p 500 or treasury bills, etc.    you could do this inside your 401 k  without having to pay income taxes  at least until you actually withdraw . 	
as part of my job, i helped my university to buy an airline ticket for a student from city a to city b. due to the covid-19 disease outbreak, the student decided that it was too risky to travel, and so he/she will remain in city a.  i noticed the following text in the electronic ticket:    ticket is non-refundable    no show penalty at usd 250 per ticket   questions:   will my university or the student have to pay a no-show penalty if he/she does not show up for the flight  should i take the effort to cancel the tickets with the airline   since the tickets are non-refundable, i am assuming that my university will not get any money back for cancelling the tickets, so there does not seem to be any benefit to us for cancelling the tickets.    note: city b is not yet a super high risk destination for covid-19, so i do not foresee the airline allowing a full refund for the airline tickets.     i explain what i decided to do in the answer below.  answer non-refundable does not mean what you seem to assume - it does not mean that the money is lost. it means that you do not get it back.  that might seem an irrelevant difference, but often it is not - you can use the value of the ticket for further bookings with the airline  for the same flier, not just anybody . if you cancel the ticket, you typically have 365 days  from day of payment, not day of flight  to use the value for another booking.  the no-show fee is a fee that gets taken out of your remaining value - if the flier simply does not show up  instead of cancelling , he will not get the full ticket value parked, but it will be reduced by the no-show fee. so you should definitely cancel, as it will save the no-show fee. only if the person is not going to fly within a full year is the ticket value completely lost. 	
recently i traveled to india. while traveling back to the usa i got cwop on my f-1 visa in doha. then they sent me back to india.   my question is: i have a one year valid opt  optional practical training . can i get a new visa for the opt   answer cwop stands for cancelled without prejudice. the phrase without prejudice means that the reason for cancellation is not to have a negative impact on your future applications for visas or for admission to the us.  therefore, you ought to be able to apply for a new visa. however, i am not sure what the rules are surrounding opt  for that, you should ask at expatriates , so there may be something going on with that that would prevent it.  the odd thing here, however, is that visas are usually cancelled without prejudice in response to some sort of administrative action. for example, when one applies for a new visa before the old one is expired, the old visa will be cancelled without prejudice. a visa cancellation while the bearer is en route to the us would normally be a cancellation with prejudice, because the bearer has been found inadmissible for some reason.  on the other hand, if you were prevented from flying to the us because of the travel ban related to covid-19, i would think that your visa should not have been cancelled at all.  so i wonder whether there is some additional fact that you have not mentioned that might explain exactly what happened. if so, that might also have a bearing on the likelihood that a future visa application would succeed. 	
i would like to know if it has been proven or disproven that the coronavirus/covid-19 can be spread via public toilet seats   i am thinking that perhaps i should always carry around hand sanitizer with me and put some on each public toilet seat that i use. i would put it on some toilet paper and then rub down the toilet seat before sitting down.  answer the virus causing covid-19 infects the respiratory tract. it is spread in droplets of moisture when an infected person sneezes, coughs, and exhales. these droplets can be inhaled directly and can also end up on surfaces, where they can be picked up on your hands and then spread to your face.  the who recommends hand washing and avoiding touching your face with unwashed hands as the primary ways to protect against infection.  could a toilet seat potentially transfer the virus  perhaps, but there is nothing special about a toilet compared to other surfaces in a bathroom, and there are no recommendations to treat that surface in particular. the way that you would transfer virus from those surfaces would be by touching them with your hands and then touching your face. the who recommends hand washing to combat this. 	
pictures of people clad in white protective gear, looking like scify and sparying streets, offices, factories and people have emerged in the media.  what are they spraying and is there any evidence it will help stop or slow the spread of the disease   making such large quantities of disinfectant must be costly, still the practice seems wide-spread especially in asia. so there must be some assumed benefit, but is there any real evidence it helps   answer i do not know but they are likely spraying bleach to kill virus on surfaces. studies show the virus can persist for days on stainless steel etc, but we do not have good data how much of any of this can cause further infection.  it does help to impress on the public the need to keep washing which is the most effective way to be safe apart from complete isolation.  http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/does-disinfecting-surfaces-really-prevent-spread-coronavirus 	
i have a train travel booked through germany, switzerland and italy. all three legs of the travel are booked through bahn.de, and the germany into switzerland leg i can find back on the system of that site. i have asked a question and they will  or at least should  get back to me on that.  the other two legs,  one from basel to milan, the other from milan to naples,  are booked by bahn.de on trenitalia, and the german site does not recognize the pnr number for the booking.  in most cases i would not bother to try to cancel/get a refund as they are super economy tickets which do not allow refunds, but with the health situation in northern italy, i want to try to get a partial or full refund,  just like i would get from the airlines if they have to cancel flight.   i hope someone is able to tell me how to ask for the  partial  refund or whether it is better to wait till almost the day of travel. the date on the ticket is 18th of march, 2020.  answer italian long distance train tickets work along a completely different system then german train tickets. italian trains have passenger manifests. german trains do not. that is why you cannot find any italian prns in the german system. deutsche bahn does not use pnrs at all  as they do not care the slightest bit about who is on their trains...  you could try if you can find your pnrs on the trenitalia website. but i do not know if you could cancel your tickets there. cancelling tickets you should do via the agent you booked them with.   if you created a login with bahn.de you should be able to see your orders there, and maybe cancel them, and you can otherwise just email them.   but you also may just be out of luck. i had to cancel a trip to germany because of the covid-19 situation, and i am not getting any refunds either. see if your travel insurance will refund them.  	
i booked an easyjet flight from london to zurich several months ago. i also have an annual coverwise travel insurance policy. i am a swiss citizen but resident in the uk.   i was scheduled to return back on the 23rd of march but easyjet has cancelled that flight. i am able to get a refund or change my flight date on easyjet but the next available date is not clear and looks like it will be after the 23rd.  is there any compensation for the extra expenses of hotels  not yet booked  and subsistence for the extra days in switzerland from either the airline or the travel insurance   answer i assume you have already travelled london - zurich, and it is your return which has been cancelled, stranding you in switzerland.  whilst switzerland is not in the eu, it is a signatory to ec261/2004. thus cancellation of a departure from zurich is covered by that regulation.   since these are extraordinary circumstances, you will be unlikely to receive the usual levels of compensation for a cancellation within 14 days of scheduled departure.   however, this is distinct from the duty of care provisions. provided you have not opted for refund on your cancelled flight, then guidance issued just yesterday confirms that this still applies, despite  or arguably, because of  a potentially lengthy stay:     according to article 9 of the regulation, which provides all relevant details, passengers  who are affected by a flight cancellation must also be offered care by the operating air  carrier, free of charge. this consists of meals and refreshments in a reasonable relation to  the waiting time  hotel accommodation if necessary, and transport to the place of  accommodation. moreover, airports are to provide assistance to disabled passengers and  passengers with reduced mobility in accordance with regulation 1107/20069  .    it is worth recalling that when the passenger opts for reimbursement of the full cost of the  ticket, the right to care ends. the same happens when the passenger chooses re-routing at  a later date at the passenger is convenience  article 5 1  b  in conjunction with article  8 1  c  .    the right to care subsists only as long as passengers have to wait for a rerouting at the  earliest convenience  article 5 1  b  in conjunction with article 8 1  b  .    the intention underlying the regulation is that the needs of passengers waiting for their  return flight or re-routing are adequately addressed. the extent of adequate care will have  to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the needs of passengers in the  circumstances and the principle of proportionality  i.e.: according to the waiting time .  the price paid for the ticket or the length of the inconvenience suffered should not  interfere with the right to care  interpretative guidelines point 4.3.2 .    according to the regulation, the air carrier is obliged to fulfil the obligation of care even  when the cancellation of a flight is caused by extraordinary circumstances, that is to say  circumstances that could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been  taken.    the regulation contains nothing that recognises a separate category of  particularly  extraordinary  events, beyond the  extraordinary circumstances  referred to in article 5 3   of the regulation. the air carrier is therefore not exempted from all of its obligations,  including those under article 9 of the regulation, even during a long period. passengers  are especially vulnerable in such circumstances and events.10 in exceptional events, the  intention of the regulation is to ensure that adequate care is provided in particular to  passengers waiting for re-routing under article 8 1  b  of the regulation.    from commission notice -interpretative guidelines on eu passenger rights regulations in the context of the developing situation with covid-19, section 3.3.  	
who is at risk of developing severe illness  answer while we are still learning about how covid-2019 affects people, older persons and persons with pre-existing medical conditions  such as high blood pressure, heart disease, lung disease, cancer or diabetes  appear to develop serious illness more often than others.	
will i be penalised, if i break the lockdown  answer will i be penalised, if i break the lockdown  all lockdown advisories should be followed with utmost seriousness. the police can take punitive action against you if they feel your actions are endangering the lives or disrupting the law.	
every country so far has been working on enforcing social distancing measures to tackle the covid-19 epidemic, with el salvador going as far as to isolate the entire country before they have received their first patient. this caused nearly ever major event to be cancelled and caused tremendous losses for the economy. but is there already a long term plan on bringing the economy back to life  surely countries cannot just live in quarantine forever    only notable exception that i am aware of is boris johnson announcing that the uk will be following a different approach:    defending prime minister boris johnson is decision not to follow other european countries by closing schools and banning mass gatherings, patrick vallance said it was the government is aim to  reduce the peak of the epidemic, pull it down and broaden it  while protecting the elderly and vulnerable   so the uk is long term plan seems to be  business as usual , but what about others   answer  germany has pretty supportive laws in place for people who are personally quarantined, basically paid sick days off. this will have the effect of supporting domestic demand during the crisis. that does not cover the general economic downturn for people who are not directly sick or quarantined, so the government decided on tax deferments and a loan program for businesses. there is also the possibility of payments from the unemployment insurance system for workers who had their working hours reduced, this allows companies to avoid layoffs.  	
in the current situation, many people will have to cancel existing flight or hotel bookings, and would like to get a refund.  in which cases can one get a refund   answer there are many specific rules which will vary based on at least:   the country where the property or airline is based the point of departure or the destination of the flight the country where you reside the original cancellation terms of the booking whether you bought flights and hotels separately or not who you bought the flights and/or hotel from whether they were bought as part of group bookings / blocks other specific details.   but, in general, the following apply:   if your flight is cancelled by the airline, then you should in general be eligible for a refund.   for flights covered by the eu flight compensation regulation ec261/2004, i.e. all flights departing from an eu/eea member state or operated by an airline based in an eu/eea member state, this is explicitly stated in article 8 of the regulation.  given that there are exceptional circumstances, no compensation is due. however, you must still be given the option of a refund, though one can accept rerouting or rebooking.  as airlines are cash-strapped, they will try to convince you to take a voucher instead of a refund. you can agree to it if you want, but they cannot force you to do so. remember that many airlines will fail due to this situation. a failed airline cannot honour a voucher or a rebooking  though it is quite probable quite a few will fail before owed refunds are paid .  airlines are required to refund you within 7 days. given the very large number of queries they are receiving at this time, and the precarious financial situation they are in, it will probably take much longer, though, and in many cases any appeal will take enough time for the airline to have failed before you get paid. for other cancelled flights not covered by ec261, the rule should be the same  they could not provide the service, so they should provide a refund , but this will be governed by local laws and/or the airlines terms  amp  conditions  conditions of carriage . note that several other countries implement rules very similar  or even identical  to ec261, including turkey, georgia, moldova, serbia and ukraine. note that you should only ask for the refund if you are at home. if you are stranded in a foreign country, getting a refund may complicate things a lot to secure alternate travel. though ec261 requires the airline to provide both the refund and a return flight  at the earliest opportunity , in many cases the return flight you want may not be operated by the airline but via some other scheme.  if however your flight has not  yet  been cancelled, and you decide to change your plans, then you do not have the right to a full refund  unless the fare was fully refundable, of course . in theory, the original terms of your fare should apply  including fares being non-refundable, penalties, etc. . most airlines will however offer to either rebook for free or provide a voucher valid for future travel  usually valid for a year . note that in many cases, the rebooking options or voucher validity will be limited to one year from the original purchase date. i doubt any will offer a refund in this case.  this applies also if you change your plans because the situation at the destination is no longer suitable, or you will not be able to get to your hotel, or the conference or event you were planning to attend has been cancelled, or you are stuck in yet another country due to the current travel restrictions, etc. as long as it is not the airline cancelling the flight, no refunds are due. the case of countries suddenly closing their borders to some categories of people  e.g. the us refusing entry to anyone having gone through the schengen area, uk, or ireland in the past 14 days  probably falls in the last category: as long as the flight still operates, the airline usually is not required to provide a refund. airlines will often proactively suggest you rebook your travel or get a voucher. once you have accepted that option, you are no longer eligible for a refund even if the flight you originally booked ends up being cancelled. for hotels, the rules are basically the same, though i am not aware of any blanket legislation like ec261:   if the hotel cancels the booking  because they will be closed or completely inaccessible , you should in general be eligible for a refund, even if the fare was non-refundable. if the hotel is still able to honour your booking, but you just can not get there  because there are no flights, borders are closed, you are stuck in another country, region or city  or no longer want to get there  you no longer want to travel, the event you wanted to attend has been cancelled... , then you are in general not eligible for a refund.  here again, the hotel may apply the original rules of the booking  no refunds or changes at all , or they can  and many will  allow for a rebooking at a later date or a voucher. but ultimately, that is their choice.  travel booked as a  package   flight   hotel, sometimes other components as well  sold by a travel agent or tour operator usually have additional protections, especially those sold by eu companies. most importantly, if the flight is cancelled or the hotel at the destination is unreachable/closed, one is eligible for a refund of the whole package, whereas when both are booked separately, one may be able to get a refund for one but not the other. added 18/3/2020 in some places, the government has changed the rules, and explicitly authorises some actors to not refund, and instead only provide a voucher valid for one year. see this answer for belgium for such an exemple.   let is add that this is were travel insurance should come into play, but double-check any exclusions and conditions that may apply. also, do not forget that you may have multiple travel insurances: many credit cards have a travel insurance automatically included for all travel bought using the card. check the conditions and exclusions of any that may apply  you can of course only get refunded by a single one . 	
i may have a number of reasons for wanting to intentionally expose myself to the coronavirus.  examples: i feel more capable of surviving it while i am younger. it reduces my ability to carry and spread the virus once my immune system has developed antibodies. it may strengthen the immune system against related viruses.   can a government legally prevent me from intentionally infecting myself with a virus   answer governments have a significant interest in controlling pathogens and preventing outbreaks: they are dangerous to dense  amp  unimmunized populations.     can a government legally prevent me from intentionally infecting  myself with a virus    yes, governments have the broad authority to enact laws. the us prohibits and regulates pathogen experimentation  self-infection . there are also rules regarding shipping and export  itar . furthermore, in the us, there are  fl, ny state  laws that prevent patients from being tested unless the order is given by an authorized health care professional. hopefully, you do live in a state that does not have this regulation  az .  while i do believe in one is right to do as one sees fit with one is own body, there is the counter-argument: there must be limits when it comes to unnecessarily exposing the community to pathogen risk. i hope that this question is theoretical and that nobody actually believes the immunity supposition without a credible peer-reviewed scientific publication. unfortunately we live in an age where misinformation is propagated at novel speed and scale.  i wish the op well. that being said, i have concerns regarding the underlying assumptions of the question. while i am comfortable with the op question, the underlying assumptions give me great pause.  update  imho: i hope that no reader will seriously consider amateur experimentation in self-infection in the hope of conferring immunity. giving a pathogen uncontrolled safe-haven to propagate and possibly infect others seems irresponsible.  i doubt that the government cares if any individual manages to puts themselves in an early grave, however, it does care if amateurs create an unnecessary pandemic risk. i would think that any government would view pathogen experimentation much like nuclear device experimentation, because of the mass casualty risk. i hope that readers understand the implications of an amateur uncontrolled experiment. 	
according to   coronavirus has mutated at least once    the novel coronavirus that has infected thousands of people across the  world may have mutated at least once -- meaning there may be two  different types of the virus causing illnesses, a new study conducted  by chinese scientists suggests.    scientists with peking university is school of life sciences and the  institut pasteur of shanghai in a preliminary study found that one  strain -- type  l  -- of the virus was more aggressive and accounted  for about 70 percent of the strains analyzed. the second -- type  s  --  was less aggressive and accounted for about 30 percent of analyzed  strains.   but also several webpages theorized the virus has mutated before passing from animals to humans.   this page what we know about the wuhan virus says    this virus belongs to a family of viruses known as coronaviruses.  named for the crown-like spikes on their surfaces, they infect mostly  bats, pigs and small mammals. but they mutate easily and can jump from  animals to humans   and    where did the new coronavirus come from  the new virus likely came  originally from bats, scientists say. it is not known exactly where or  how it jumped to humans, though. viruses from bats often infect  another mammal first and then mutate to become more transmissible to  humans.   though    coronaviruses can also jump directly to humans, without mutating or  passing through an intermediate species.   is something more known about this  is it possible the virus has mutated twice in a period of time of months   answer this question makes a number of incorrect assumptions and i do not have time to correct them. the short answer is that the virus has mutated probably hundreds of times since it entered humans in late 2019.   the lower figure on the nextstrain.org ncov page,  diversity , shows the known mutations that have been identified so far. as i look at it now, there are maybe 100-200 shown there, but that will change daily and i can not be bothered to count them.  is it possible the virus has mutated twice in a period of time of months  of course it is. that is what we expect from coronaviruses. it would be shocking if it did not.   the default assumption  based on a vast amount of experience with coronaviruses and many other viruses  is that these mutations are neutral and do not affect the virus in terms of fitness, virulence, or transmissibility in any way  they are occasionally useful in tracking sources, but unless you have spent a lot of time looking at virus phylogenetic trees for several years, your interpretations of these mutations are almost certainly wrong.  an example of people making claims based on unfamiliarity with virus evolution is the  two different types of the virus  claim. that claim is addressed by maclean and colleagues in their response to  on the origin and continuing evolution of sars-cov-2 . summary:    two of the key claims made by this paper appear to have been reached by misunderstanding and over-interpretation of the sars-cov-2 data, with an additional analysis suffering from methodological limitations  	
i made  85,000 last year. how much money will i receive     answer for a single tax filer, the rebate amount reduces by  5 for every  100 of income over  75,000. so a single person with no children who had adjusted gross income of  85,000 in 2019, and has already filed a 2019 tax return, would receive  700.    keep in mind that phase-out of the credit is based on people is adjusted gross income, which does not include income put into pre-tax accounts such as traditional 401 k s. as a result, someone with an annual salary of  85,000 and no other income could have adjusted gross income of less than  85,000.	
can i walk my dog under the category of daily exercise  answer yes you can.  according to government advice for people with animals, if you have a dog that needs walking, you should count this as the one form of exercise you take every day.  it is important that you should remain 2m away from anyone outside your household while walking your dog.  there is no guidance from the government on whether your dog should be on a lead, but some parks, including the royal parks, insist on this as a rule, to help ensure people maintain social distance.  as well as your daily exercise, you may also leave the house to care for a vulnerable person, and this care may involve walking their dog.  when you do this, you should always remember to wash your hands before and after handling the dog, and remain 2m away from the owner.	
are the symptoms of covid-19 different in children than in adults  answer no. the symptoms of covid-19 are similar in children and adults. however, children with confirmed covid-19 have generally presented with mild symptoms. reported symptoms in children include cold-like symptoms, such as fever, runny nose, and cough. vomiting and diarrhea have also been reported. it is not known yet whether some children may be at higher risk for severe illness, for example, children with underlying medical conditions and special healthcare needs. there is much more to be learned about how the disease impacts children.	
are plastic grocery bags considered the plastic that you have to wait hours to touch  answer you should take precaution with any containers, elliott says.  the plasticgrocery bags i would throw out right away, wash your hands and then clean yourfood. chances  of infection  are low,  she said.  but better yet, bring yourown bags  it is better for the environment anyway. 	
does testing positive mean that i have the virus and that i will develop symptoms  answer yes, testing positive means that you have the virus, but it does not mean that you will develop symptoms. some people who have the virus do not have any symptoms at all.  at the same time, testing negative does not necessarily mean that you do not have the virus.	
why do i have to stay at home  answer staying home prevents you from contracting the virus. but, more than that, it prevents you from transmitting the virus to others. governments, health organizations and medical professionals are urging us to stay at home to flatten the curve. 	
we are a family of healthy people  30s/40s, kids in elementary/middle school . i have got an automatic contribution for my health savings account. the balance grows and grows. we have barely had a chance to spend any of it, aside from dental expenses.  are there guidelines about how much one should aim to set aside for medical expenses  are there actuarial figures about what medical expenses are likely to be, over a given period   obviously any of us could come down with a horrible chronic disease at any time, and drain the account. the ultimate decision will be balancing risk and opportunity cost, but as it stands i do not have any information about the risk.   answer there are few different things to consider:   deductible : since you have an hsa you are probably on a high deductible insurance plan. take a look at your hsa balance and divide by your max out of pocket deductible. that is the number of years you are covered for the  worst case  scenario. i would say you want at least ten, but 100 years would be excessive. depends of course on you own risk comfort. retirement : health care cost will likely be the single largest expense in retirement and unfortunately it is the hardest to predict and find good data on. a recent fidelity study put the average life time out-of-pocket cost for a couple into the  300.000 range. other studies quote about  5000- 7000 in today is dollar per year per person on medicare. health care inflation is currently significantly higher than regular inflation, which complicates the math further. still, it is not unreasonable to have several hundred thousand dollars squirreled away for retirement health care coronavirus and shifts in the health care system: this is pure speculation at this point, but chances are that the current crisis will have an impact on the way health care works and gets paid for in the future. the most drastic change would be a single payer system  as many other countries in the civilized world already have  but it is very hard to predict how an hsa would roll over into this. one of the more plausible scenarios would be to allow a roll over into an ira but that is all a wild guess at the moment.  in any case the current system is stretched thin already. the average retiree spends more than 40  of their social security income on health care and it is getting worse quickly. investment: hsa contributions are pre-tax money. in most cases that alone will outweigh any potential investment return. assuming there is no high interest debt, i would recommend to first max out pre-tax retirement contributions, then pre-tax college savings and then pre-tax hsa. if you have other highly attractive investment vehicle you can consider those too. stocks are cheap at the moment, although very risky and likely to be volatile for a while.   looking at the actual medical risk is probably not that helpful. statistics do not really help if it is just you and your family. would you be doing anything differently if you knew the risk for a major health disaster is 0.1  instead of 0.2     	
what is the risk of my child becoming sick with covid-19  answer based on available evidence, children do not appear to be at higher risk for covid-19 than adults. while some children and infants have been sick with covid-19, adults make up most of the known cases to date. you can learn more about who is at higher risk for severe illness from covid-19 at people who are at higher risk for severe illness.	
if i understand it right, the following steps are to be taken into account:   taking the sample. -for the proposed method more samples would have to be taken. transporting the sample -more samples would have to be transported. testing -more material, would have to be tested, but less individual tests would have to be made.   so it seems, that 4 sub-questions can to be considdered to help answere.   what is the bottle neck in the testign process  does the amount of material needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material  does the amount of time needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material  is the the nucleic acid amplification test still reliable enough, if the virus rna to be detected is dilluded among multiple samples    so far i have read a rather general account on how the tests are conducted http://www.auckland.ac.nz/en/news/2020/03/18/how-testing-for-covid-19-works.html and i think i have a somewhat crude undersanding of how naat works.  answer update apr 2: pooled tests are under development now  newspaper in german , the plan is to pool 5 samples and to use the usual amount of each sample  and presumably dilute less  so that sensitivity is not an issue.     in general, pooled tests help in screening situations, that is, when very few samples are positive, so that 10  samples can be pooled and still only a small fraction of pooled samples is positive. they require good sensitivity.   we are not in a screening situation with the current sars-cov-2 testing, and pooling would not help much right now - it would probably not be worth while the effort to develop and implment pooled tests.     long version:   update: deleted newspaper hints that logistics may be the bottleneck:     what is the bottle neck in the testign process    according to kekule  10 min or so into the interview  the  lab machinery  in germany has a capacity of several 100k tests per day, but right now there are shortages in reagents but also e.g. in the swabs for taking samples  so, comparably low tech parts of the test . pooled tests of course need just as many swabs  if not more: false negatives due to the sampling not picking up virus material is a concern, and the usual remedy is to take more swabs.     anything that comes now are my guesses as a professional from a neighbouring field: analytical chemistry . i do not have any first hand experience with pcr.     does the amount of material needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material    i expect the reagent needs to scale  mostly  with the number of performed tests. i also expect the amount of tested material to be the same  prescribed by the method/protocol  for each run. that is, when you pool n samples, you would take only 1/n of material from each  in practice it may be better to pool and then take out 1/n of the pooled sample . update: the test described in the newspaper goes the opposite direction: they take n times the sample material in order to avoid trouble with low sensitivity. in consequence, this cannot be considered a  derived   variety  of the 1-sample tests, it must be newly developed almost from scratch.    does the amount of time needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material    again: the tests, mor precisely the number of batches of tests since multiple tests can be processed in parallel.     is the the nucleic acid amplification test still reliable enough, if the virus rna to be detected is dilluded among multiple samples     from here on, we are back inside my professional experience   this i cannot answer since i do not know the typical concentration range of virus rna in the samples of positive cases.   the lowest concentration of virus rna that can reliably be detected is called the limit of detection  lod . in this context, reliably is 19 out of 20 validation samples at that concentration according to the emergency/ shortcut  validation procedure of the fda  i expect other parts of the world to have similar validation procedures right now . the rfda has a page with tests that have this emergency approval  http://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/emergency-situations-medical-devices/emergency-use-authorizations covid19ivd , and the manufacturer information lists the lod.   one would relate the lower end of the typical concentration range to the lod to calculate how many samples could be pooled without the test becoming unreliable.  the linked news article hints that this may actually be a limiting factor. the test under development avoids this problem by using more sample material.    there is another limitation to how many samples one can sensibly pool. the aim of the procedure is to save tests. thus, we need to set up the pooling so that only a small proportion of pooled tests is positive and a large fraction of cases can be  closed  as negative.   here is the fraction of pooled samples that is positive depending on the prevalence   fraction of positive samples and the number of samples that are pooled n:     contours are every 10  points. dashed and dotted lines are the current fractions of positive samples for germany and italy.  from that, we can calculate how many samples we need to run  for every positive pooled sample, additional n tests  and from that the fraction of tests we save compared to testing each sample separately:    contours here are right to left: 0, 25  , 50   and 75    savings .  so, at the current testing situation in germany, pooling 4 samples would allow to save almost 60   of tests. in italy, pooling 3 samples would save less than 15   of tests.  a pooled test would need its own validation and one would also do some additional development to get the required sensitivity  lod  for the desired number of pooled samples, meaning more delay until pooled tests would be available.   in addition, pooled tests alongside the single tests that are anyways needed would mean additional logistic burden in the labs.   i do not think developing a pooled test would be worth while right now, the more so, as other measures would give similar or better relief:  doing only 1 test per household would save about 50   since the average size of a household in germany is 2 without the need of any new test development.  the same is true for further concentrating the tests on the vulnerable/high risk population.   thus, pooled tests may help in the containment phase when they would allow to test a larger number of possible contacts.   update: getting back into containment phase is the aim of the current lockdown.   we would still have high requirements for sensitivity and specificity. this means, pooled tests would have helped most right at the beginning of the epidemic - but they always mean additional r amp d and also additional validation needs to be done  and part of the validation work btw. must be done in every single lab that wants to use the test  since they need to be implemented in addition to the single sample method. this means, they will always be available only after the single sample method is established. 	
i see people in my neighborhood out running, riding bikes and walking their dogs. is that ok  answer yes, that is ok  just be sure to maintain distance from other people.  the cdcrecommends  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html cdc aa refval http 3a 2f 2fwww.cdc.gov 2fcoronavirus 2f2019-ncov 2fabout 2fprevention.html a distance of about 6 feet. even in states and counties where  residents arebeing asked to stayhome  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/03/21/coronavirus-lockdown-orders-shelter-place-stay-home-state-list/2891193001/  or   shelterin place  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/17/coronavirus-san-francisco-california-shelter-in-place/5073397002/ ,  it is still fine to gofor a run, hike or do other outdoor activities, as long as proper socialdistancing is observed.just do not be like chicago, where city officials closed trails and parks aftercrowds of hundreds of people were seen congregating along the city islakefront.remember: the white house recommends that you should avoid social gatheringsinvolving more than 10 people, as well as all non-essential travel, shoppingtrips and social visits.   social distancing:   why it is so important to stopping the spread ofcoronavirus   http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/2020/03/16/social-distancing-coronavirus-isolation-quarantine-pandemic-virus-infection-symptoms/5019940002/ 	
can children get coronavirus  answer yes, although people aged under 18 are less susceptible to the virus, according to the limited clinical reports available.	
am i at risk for covid-19 in the united states  answer this is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment may change daily. the latest updates are available on cdc is coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  website.	
what can i do to ease my anxiety about this  answer some of the most important  measures you can take to help manage anxiety  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/smarter-living/coronavirus- anxiety-tips.html , experts say, include staying informed on the facts, asking for help and practicing self-compassion. for some people, anxiety manifests in feeling helpless or underreacting to what they are experiencing. recognize your own agency and start taking care of the common-sense precautionary measures that are within your control, like stocking up on a  couple of extra weeks  supply  http://www.ready.gov/pandemic  of food or medication. maintaining social connection, despite physical distance, is also important. reach out to others via phone calls, emails or video chats, and talk through the feelings you are experiencing. it is important to be gentle with yourself, and maintain any kind of routine you can to have a sense of stability. practice self-care, whether that means doing an at-home workout, baking, maintaining a regular religious practice or journaling. focusing on these things can help bring some peace of mind. if your anxiety is debilitating, seek out a mental health professional or other clinical mental health services.	
should i avoid contact with pets or other animals if i am sick with covid-19  answer you should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with covid-19, just like you would around other people. although there have not been reports of pets becoming sick with covid-19 in the united states, it is still recommended that people sick with covid-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the new coronavirus. when possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. if you are sick with covid-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food. if you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets.	
can i exercise outside  what about going to the park  answer yes, but do not forget about social distancing.  regular exercise can help keep you physically and mentally healthy during the outbreak. you should feel free to talk a walk, go to the park and get outside, but maintain at least 6 feet between yourself and others during that time. do not pack into a crowded park, beach or hiking trail. instead, head to an area with fewer people or exercise at off-hours, when not as many people are out and about.  since covid-19 can live on hard surfaces, and most playgrounds are not cleaned and disinfected regularly, you may want to reconsider bringing your child there, especially if you live in an area with ongoing coronavirus transmissions. if you do decide to go to the playground, make sure your child stays at least 6 feet away from other children.	
the wuhan coronavirus is genome was released, and is now available on genbank. looking at it...    1 attaaaggtt tataccttcc caggtaacaa accaaccaac tttcgatctc ttgtagatct  61 gttctctaaa cgaactttaa aatctgtgtg gctgtcactc ggctgcatgc ttagtgcact  121 cacgcagtat aattaataac taattactgt cgttgacagg acacgagtaa ctcgtctatc  ... 29761 acagtgaaca atgctaggga gagctgccta tatggaagag ccctaatgtg taaaattaat 29821 tttagtagtg ctatccccat gtgattttaa tagcttctta ggagaatgac aaaaaaaaaa 29881 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa     wuhan seafood market pneumonia virus isolate wuhan-hu-1, complete genome, genbank   geeze, that is a lot of a nucleotides---i do not think that is just random. i would guess that it is either an artifact of the sequencing process, or there is some underlying biological reason.  question: why does the wuhan coronavirus genome end in 33 a is   answer good observation  the 3  poly a  tail is actually a very common feature of positive-strand rna viruses, including coronaviruses and picornaviruses.  for coronaviruses in particular, we know that the poly a  tail is required for replication, functioning in conjunction with the 3  untranslated region  utr  as a cis-acting signal for negative strand synthesis and attachment to the ribosome during translation. mutants lacking the poly a  tail are severely compromised in replication. jeannie spagnolo and brenda hogue report:    the 3  poly  a  tail plays an important, but as yet undefined role in coronavirus genome replication. to further examine the requirement for the coronavirus poly a  tail, we created truncated poly a  mutant defective interfering  di  rnas and observed the effects on replication. bovine coronavirus  bcv  and mouse hepatitis coronavirus a59  mhv-a59  di rnas with tails of 5 or 10 a residues were replicated, albeit at delayed kinetics as compared to di rnas with wild type tail lengths   50 a residues . a bcv di rna lacking a poly a  tail was unable to replicate  however, a mhv di lacking a tail did replicate following multiple virus passages. poly a  tail extension/repair was concurrent with robust replication of the tail mutants. binding of the host factor poly a - binding protein  pabp  appeared to correlate with the ability of di rnas to be replicated. poly a  tail mutants that were compromised for replication, or that were unable to replicate at all exhibited less in vitro pabp interaction. the data support the importance of the poly a  tail in coronavirus replication and further delineate the minimal requirements for viral genome propagation.    spagnolo j.f., hogue b.g.  2001  requirement of the poly a  tail in coronavirus genome replication. in: lavi e., weiss s.r., hingley s.t.  eds  the nidoviruses. advances in experimental medicine and biology, vol 494. springer, boston, ma   yu-hui peng et al. also report that the length of the poly a  tail is regulated during infection:    similar to eukaryotic mrna, the positive-strand coronavirus genome of  30 kilobases is 5 -capped and 3 -polyadenylated. it has been demonstrated that the length of the coronaviral poly a  tail is not static but regulated during infection  however, little is known regarding the factors involved in coronaviral polyadenylation and its regulation. here, we show that during infection, the level of coronavirus poly a  tail lengthening depends on the initial length upon infection and that the minimum length to initiate lengthening may lie between 5 and 9 nucleotides. by mutagenesis analysis, it was found that  i  the hexamer aguaaa and poly a  tail are two important elements responsible for synthesis of the coronavirus poly a  tail and may function in concert to accomplish polyadenylation and  ii  the function of the hexamer aguaaa in coronaviral polyadenylation is position dependent. based on these findings, we propose a process for how the coronaviral poly a  tail is synthesized and undergoes variation. our results provide the first genetic evidence to gain insight into coronaviral polyadenylation.    peng y-h, lin c-h, lin c-n, lo c-y, tsai t-l, wu h-y  2016  characterization of the role of hexamer aguaaa and poly a  tail in coronavirus polyadenylation. plos one 11 10 : e0165077   this builds upon prior work by hung-yi wu et al, which showed that the coronaviral 3  poly a  tail is approximately 65 nucleotides in length in both genomic and sgmrnas at peak viral rna synthesis, and also observed that the precise length varied throughout infection. most interestingly, they report:    functional analyses of poly a  tail length on specific viral rna species, furthermore, revealed that translation, in vivo, of rnas with the longer poly a  tail was enhanced over those with the shorter poly a . although the mechanisms by which the tail lengths vary is unknown, experimental results together suggest that the length of the poly a  and poly u  tails is regulated. one potential function of regulated poly a  tail length might be that for the coronavirus genome a longer poly a  favors translation. the regulation of coronavirus translation by poly a  tail length resembles that during embryonal development suggesting there may be mechanistic parallels.    wu hy, ke ty, liao wy, chang ny. regulation of coronaviral poly a  tail length during infection. plos one. 2013 8 7 :e70548. published 2013 jul 29. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0070548   it is also worth pointing out that poly a  tails at the 3  end of rna are not an unusual feature of viruses. eukaryotic mrna almost always contains poly a  tails, which are added post-transcriptionally in a process known as polyadenylation. it should not therefore be surprising that positive-strand rna viruses would have poly a  tails as well. in eukaryotic mrna, the central sequence motif for identifying a polyadenylation region is aauaaa, identified way back in the 1970s, with more recent research confirming its ubiquity. proudfoot 2011 is a nice review article on poly a  signals in eukaryotic mrna. 	
france held local elections even after coronavirus related restrictions had to be put in place.   the article mentions only this rather general and vague reason for holding them:    macron decided to go ahead with the elections last week, saying it was  vital the democratic system to continue functioning.   clearly holding an elections means that lots of people are walking around and since the coronavirus spreads much easier that other viruses, it kind of defeats the purpose of existing restrictions.  is not it possible to delay elections in france   also, it is expected that voter turnout to be lower due to people being afraid of going out.  question: why did the french government organized elections as planned in spite of coronavirus restrictions   answer scientists advising the government told them that, with appropriate measures  such as soap everywhere,  1m distance between everyone, etc. , it was no more dangerous than going to buy some food, which is still authorized. the full scientific advice has not been published yet  it should be though , but here is the head of the scientific committee confirming it :    le conseil scientifique a considere qu il n y avait pas d element  pour penser qu il y aurait un surrisque pour ces personnes a condition  que les elections soient organisees de facon pratique    the scientific committee considered there was no element indicating  more risk  to go vote than to go shopping  for those people  elderly  people , if the elections are organized in a practical way.   there is also a question of politics and timing : on thursday morning all parties asked that it be maintained  in particular the right-wing senate president, who is now blamed for it , so they had to decide that.  however, later the same day, the confinement measures were decided, which seemed to contradict the possibility to vote. but politically it was too late, cancelling the elections would go against advice given by all parties on thursday morning.  since macron was expected to lose the elections  which he mostly did , cancelling the election after every other party expressed against it would have been seen as an antidemocratic political maneuver.  some of the opposition parties have since then declared that they only accepted to maintain the elections before the confinement measures were decided, and thus that they could not decide in all knowledge, and would have changed their minds after the confinement measures were announced. 	
how do i self-isolate in a sharehouse  answer if you are living with people who are not in isolation, wear a mask when you are in the same room as them. it is best to sleep in a different room to your partner, avoid spending time in communal areas and use a separate bathroom, if possible. wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds before entering areas used by others and after using the bathroom.	
apologies for sloppy writing due to my current situation. i am currently in jamaica with tui all inclusive holiday. just an hour ago i got email from gov.uk travel advice stating following.    the foreign and commonwealth office advise against all but essential travel to jamaica due to restrictions imposed by the jamaican authorities in response to the coronavirus  covid-19  pandemic. british nationals who wish to leave jamaica are encouraged to make travel arrangements urgently before airlines reduce direct and indirect flight options.   isummary  and  health  page     time updated  11:12pm, 14 march 2020   reference http://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/jamaica  does this mean or is there an indirect signals that uk government would be closing borders for all affected countries soon   i reached out to tui asking specifically that whether tui would be arranging immediate flight in case of sudden news from uk gov to close borders in short period of time  their response was lengthy but in essence they said they will try their best to bring everyone home if such case occurs.   in addition i also got to know that outgoing flights from uk to jamaica are suspended from 16th of march.  i myself and my partner are immigrant in uk and resident on tier 2. given the situation i am very confused on what should be my next move   should i arrange other flights immediately to return home or wait until next update   ps. i do have travel insurance, my scheduled flight is on 20th of march  answer   does this mean or is there an indirect signals that uk government would be closing borders for all affected countries soon    no, it means that due to jamaica is restrictions there may be less planes available to return with.    their response was lengthy but in essence they said they will try their best to bring everyone home if such case occurs.   this is, for them, a logistic problem. will the plane needed be there on the 20th for your scheduled return flight .  having a reservation relatively soon after the 16th is a positive point for you. somebody who would be casually traveling from island to island less so.   assume nobody is interested in keeping peaple stranded. it may not work out exactly as planned, but as seen in the recent past, everybody was able to return.  keep in close contact with your travel agent and make sure you are available at short notice to leave.   if you are not satisfied with this arraignment, you can make your own. but assume this may be difficult.   also make sure that your travel insurance covers this situation if you expect them to cover the costs of your private arrangements. 	
how long will it remain potent outside an organism   i am thinking in the context of if it can survive a couple of weeks or a month in the mail for the recipient to get infected.  edit:  i tried looking at the who is page dedicated to the virus, have not found anything pertaining to my question in the pdfs there  maybe i overlooked something, i guess i am just lacking the proper keyword to use for the search   i tried looking at the coronavirus wikipedia page and have not found anything there.  i did find somewhere that a flu virus would typically not remain potent for more than 14 days outside of an organism, but i am not sure if this applies to all viruses.   answer since it seems unlikely that these data are available already from the novel virus, i will refer to other coronavirus strains associated with outbreaks, the sars-cov coronavirus associated with an outbreak in 2003 and mers-cov.  in reference to the stability of the virus outside the body for sars-cov, the who consensus document said:    data from the chinese university in hong kong indicated that sars-cov has  been isolated from stool on paper, a formica surface and a plastered wall after 36 hours, on a plastic surface and stainless steel after 72 hours, and after 96 hours on a glass slide.  hospital environmental samples from a number of sites, including walls and the ventilation  system, tested pcr positive in canada.   a later follow-up confirmed that sars-cov is viable possibly for days in the right conditions:    in the present study, we have demonstrated that sars cov can survive at least two weeks after drying at temperature and humidity conditions found in an air-conditioned environment. the virus is stable for 3 weeks at room temperature in a liquid environment1   1chan, k. h., peiris, j. s., lam, s. y., poon, l. l. m., yuen, k. y.,  amp  seto, w. h.  2011 . the effects of temperature and relative humidity on the viability of the sars coronavirus. advances in virology, 2011.  this suggests that sars-cov was better at surviving in the environment than other related strains, especially in cool temperatures. however, there was still a substantial decrease in viral titre by 1 week.  for mers-cov,    mers-cov virus could still be recovered after 48 hours2   ...on plastic and steel surfaces, though not at 72 hours, at 20c. the virus degraded more quickly at higher temperatures.  2van doremalen, n., bushmaker, t.,  amp  munster, v. j.  2013 . stability of middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus  mers-cov  under different environmental conditions. eurosurveillance, 18 38 , 20590.    assuming the new 2019-ncov virus is similar to these, there is a risk of environmental transmission particularly in high-exposure locations like hospitals. it seems far less likely to be a risk after multiple weeks, but there is still little known about the new strain.  i was unable to find more than speculation about rates of actual infection due to exposure in these conditions, but that speculation is mostly focused on the health care setting and in particular on transmission in health care settings despite extensive precautions.  it is very difficult to connect culture viability to actual transmission risks, and not really ethical to swipe different concentrations of a coronavirus on the surfaces of a room and let people wander through to see how many get sick. therefore, the best evidence for surface transmission of these viruses is when other methods of exposure can be mostly ruled out, and this is a very imperfect estimate. 	
i applied for a faculty position and did a video interview. it was supposed that they let me know if i have been selected for campus or not. in the middle of the interview with other candidates, this covid-19 happened and i am not sure what strategy they will take as the target university has canceled all in-person classes and shifted to an online model.   would it be appropriate to ask the committee about the status of the search   what factors would affect the university is response in such a case   answer it is certainly appropriate to ask. virus or not, the world will move on from this crisis, hopefully in a timeframe of a few months, you will still need a job, and the university will still need faculty to teach classes and do research. students will still need to be educated. higher education can be affected by economic recession, put probably less so than many other sectors of the economy. so do not panic.  so yes, it is fine to send them an email and politely inquire about the status of the search. keep in mind that it is possible they are scrambling to figure out how to keep instruction going and dealing with other urgent matters around the current crisis unrelated to faculty hiring. so the most likely response you will get is they are still figuring things out and do not have any news. 	
someone i know booked a return flight on air serbia from vienna to podgorica  montenegro  via belgrade, departing on 6 march 2020 and returning on 14 march 2020. on 10 march 2020, air serbia cancelled the return leg from belgrade to vienna without explanation  the passenger contacted air serbia by phone, who rebooked them on the next available flight, 24 hours later than the original return date. air serbia told them on the phone that reasonable transport, meal, and accommodation costs for the unplanned overnight stay in belgrade would be compensated.  according to air serbia is statement of passenger rights , the eu regulation 261/2004 on flight compensation is integrated into serbian law, so we assume that the passenger is entitled not only to the costs for the stay in belgrade, but also eur250 in compensation for the cancelled flight.  the passenger accordingly made a claim for compensation  both the overnight expenses and the eur250 cancellation award  using air serbia is online form , including all the relevant travel information and documentation  receipts, etc. . air serbia just now rejected the claim as follows:    thank you for your patience while the claim relating to your journey from beg to prg on 14.3.2020 was processed.    after carefully reviewing your claim, i regret to inform you that we are not able to provide compensation in this case. this decision was reached taking into account the specific circumstances of your case, due to the coronavirus pandemic. please note that the decision is final.    we are sorry that our service on 14.3.2020 did not meet your expectations and hope that we can look forward to welcoming you on-board an air serbia flight in the future.   we are skeptical about this rejection for the following reasons:   on the phone, air serbia had already promised compensation at least for the transport, accommodation, and meals in belgrade. air serbia cancelled the flight before the governments of serbia and austria had imposed any restrictions on foreign travel relating to the coronavirus pandemic. at no time before now had air serbia indicated that the cancellation was due to the pandemic. according to the answer to another covid-19-related question here  may i get a refund for a flight cancelled because of covid-19  ,  under eu rules you always get a refund .   we would therefore like answers to the following:   under serbian or eu law  whichever is applicable in our case , is the passenger in fact entitled to compensation in this case  if the answer to the previous question is  yes , then to what enforcement body can the passenger appeal air serbia is final decision  the eu helpfully provides a list of national enforcement bodies for ec 261/2004, but serbia is not on this list. if there is no national enforcement body in serbia, can the passenger appeal to the one in austria, given that she bought the ticket and is resident there        note that due to air serbia is broken website, you may need to follow that link twice before the correct page appears. it seems that first-time visitors to the website are always redirected to its home page.  answer the eur250 compensation does not apply in extraordinary circumstances beyond the airline is control. while it is not certain that this applies, it is highly likely now during covid-19.  however, extra expenses  accommodation, food  are to be reimbursed, per article 9 of the ec261 regulation.  so contact them again and mention this  of course, attach the receipts . tell them that article 9 of ec261 applies regardless of any extraordinary circumstances.  and if you want to be dead certain if extraordinary cirumstances apply or not  i.e. whether or not the eur250 compensation is due , ask a firm such as claimcompass to investigate it. it costs nothing, and they have sophisticated resources for checking things, but if they find compensation is due, they will keep 35  of the amount for themselves. 	
 would symptoms differ from eating virus contaminated food versus breathing in virus  would symptoms be a good indicator where the virus is located  the covid-19 causes respiratory symptoms and i guess that is because people are breathing in virus droplets in their lungs. but if you would swallow covid-19 contaminated food and avoid breathing in the virus would that cause other symptoms like stomach pain or diarrhea    answer well this is a guess because there is no published data that i am aware of in the english literature to be able to answer the question.  a small percentage of people who have presented with covid-19 pneumonia have also had diarrhoea, it is thought that the faecal-oral route is also an important mode of transmission.   if the person develops a respiratory infection the affected cells will eventually spill virus into the circulation, a condition called viraemia. this allows the virus to reach distant cells that bear the ace2 surface receptor and these cells are also in the heart, kidneys and gut as well as monocytes. one would also expect that intestinal cells affected primarily by ingestion of virus particles would also do the same, and produce a viraemia leading to the virus spreading to the lungs, heart and kidneys. but they may present initially with diarrhoea before getting respiratory symptoms. 	
are pregnant women at higher risk  answer we do not know.    because covid-19 is a new virus, we do not know whether pregnant women are more susceptible than the general population. based on data from previous coronaviruses, like sars and mers, some experts believe that pregnant women may be at higher risk for severe illness and death, but that data is limited and far from conclusive.  for now, neither the cdc nor the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists recommend any specific guidance for pregnant women beyond what they recommend to the general public.	
is it safe for me to vote at a polling location  answer states have received guidance from the cdc on how to keep voting locations clean. it is up to you whether you feel comfortable going.   many states that already held elections imposed measures to reduce contact between voters, increasing the distance between voting booths and rigorously disinfecting voting equipment. but if you go, remember - wash your hands before, during and afterward.   if you are able to mail in your ballot, do - just do not lick the envelope.   if you think you have a fever or respiratory symptoms, the cdc advises that you stay home. it is unfortunate to skip out on your civic duty, but sick people should not visit crowded locations.	
is it best to cancel routine doctor and dental appointments  answer federal health officials are asking americans to stay home as much as possible and cancel any elective surgeries. some local and state governments have implemented stricter rules.  if it is possible to keep your appointment and speak with your provider over the phone or video, you should. however, if you cannot speak with a provider remotely and are able to reschedule your in-person appointment for a later date, you should.	
my bf flies on monday athens-zurich-miami, with swiss. he recently received an email saying that his flight details have changed, and he finds out that lufthansa, ath-zrh operator, will most likely cancel the flight due to the covid-19 coronavirus. the other flight is scheduled.  he went to the airport, but the booth told him that they assist only with today is flights, and gave him the central contact number. he calls, but fails getting through, most likely because of the heavy load of calls these days... he will email them too, but with weekend ahead, it will probably go without an on time response.  any ideas on what would be his next realistic steps  he is really stressed   answer he should not get stressed too much. lufthansa/swiss are rearranging their schedule a bit, due to decreased demand. and yes, this will mean that some flights are cancelled. that does not mean that all flights are cancelled or that they will not take him at all.   he has a ticket with swiss, and they have to transport him to his destination, even if on a different flight. he does not have to worry about being  left behind  if he does not make his first flight.  is the flight cancelled   currently, he does not know. he can  and should  check the flight status online  swiss timetable and lufthansa flight status .  as long as the flight is not officially cancelled, it makes little sense to call or go to the airport - they can not tell you much. also, it makes little sense to re-book if you do not know which flights are going to operate.  what happens if it is cancelled   if the flight is cancelled, the airline will offer to re-book him on a different one: there are multiple flights from athens to zurich, but they could rebook him completely  e.g. going through frankfurt on lufthansa . if is not happy with the new itinerary, they will usually offer other options. he could also get a refund, but it seems like he wants to travel.  if he booked it through a third party  e.g. expedia , he will have to go through them for any re-booking.  if the flight is not cancelled, he should be at the airport early so that he can directly talk to the agents in case of a last-minute cancellation.  other things  on their information page swiss currently informs passengers that they can freely re-book all tickets bought before march 5th.  however, it seems like your bf wants to travel .  in case of a delay or cancellation your bf may also have a right to compensation under the eu rules - at least in this case, when the outbreak directly the reason for the cancellation. 	
would it make sense from the public safety point of view to allow the persons already having the antibodies to move more freely than the persons not having the antibodies  or it is more of an ethical question than a medical one   answer projects for broad-based antibody blood tests are currently springing up like mushrooms. but the first test series available will be needed for the staff of health care.  of course there are other interests for antibody tests: virological, epidemiological and as your question implies economical.   antibody blood tests should provide information about the spread of the corona virus so that the measures taken by the authorities can be adapted. a nationwide initiative is now putting pressure.  http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic  for example, if a selected group of people were tested for sars-cov-2 antibodies every two weeks, the course of the epidemic would be clearly visible.  the interest, especially in business circles, is huge. everyone urgently wanted to know where they were in the pandemic, who was at best already immune and could therefore probably move around and work safely again.   http://www.srf.ch/news/schweiz/coronavirus-antikoerper-tests-ein-schweizweites-projekt-wird-aufgegleist  such data could inform practical issues such as whether and how to reopen schools that have been closed. relatively few cases have been diagnosed among children, but it is not clear whether that is because they do not get infected or because their infections are generally so mild that they go unnoticed. testing children for sars-cov-2 antibodies should resolve that.  http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic  authorities are still afraid of a roll back of the wave when people start moving freely again. it must have a great acceptance and also be respected by those who should still stay at home.  	
are schools and unis closed  will they close  answer other countries have closed schools and universities as a social distancing measure, however australia has not yet taken this step. the situation with schools varies state by state. queensland, south australia, western australia, tasmania and northern territory will keep schools open for the children of essential workers but will began to implement pupil-free days in the coming weeks. victoria and act schools are already on break. nsw schools remain open but students are encouraged to stay at home. several schools around the country have closed temporarily after a staff member or student tested positive for the virus. some universities have chosen to close their campuses.	
should i wear a mask  answer the c.d.c.    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks-coronavirus- cdc.html  recommends  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks- coronavirus-cdc.html  that all americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. this shift in federal guidance, announced by president trump at a white house briefing, reflects    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html  new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html . until now, the c.d.c., like the w.h.o., has advised that ordinary people do not need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. the new york times and other news outlets had been reporting the c.d.c. is previous guidance. masks do not replace hand washing and social distancing.	
i live in the uk, and work on weekends for probably the uk is biggest fashion retailer. i recently got an email from them asking me to consent to the terms of a new contract. in it, i noticed this section, which does not apply to me but i found interesting anyway:      if you commenced employment with  our company  after  and were not, therefore, on our payroll on  28 february 2020, please read this  section:       as you started employment with  our company  after 28 february 2020, we  cannot include you in the uk government is job retention scheme.  however, i am pleased to confirm that we will furlough you under the  same terms.     you will move into a period of furlough backdated to 24 march 2020 and  until 31 may 2020 unless notice is given in writing by  our company  as set  out below.   i am confused as to the distinction between the job retention scheme and furloughing. does this mean that the government will not be paying for these workers, so the company will be paying for them instead, or does it mean something else that i am missing here   answer your interpretation seems to be correct. a furloughed employee is defined by acas to be one who is  temporarily sent home because there is no work . this could in principle be through unpaid leave.   the coronavirus job retention scheme is a government scheme to compensate employers for the wage bills of their staff during the furlough, so that the furloughed staff can continue to receive some income. an employee would have no direct dealings with the scheme and would continue to be paid via their employer.   your company seems to be offering to match the terms offered to employees under the coronavirus job retention scheme of 80  of salary, presumably out of their own funds. a kind gesture, it seems  	
is this normal   i have got about 10 quail meats and some of them have these spots.  are these safe to cook and eat  is it possible that they had a disease or were infected   i am scared of coronavirus, and chickens and quails can carry influenza and coronavirus is a type of influenza, so could this be related     i have googled a lot but i can not find anything on it:  quail red or black or dark spot on meat  etc.  my question is not a duplicate of: red spots on the chicken  answer it is just clotted blood.  quail is a far more game-y meat than chicken meaning there is much more muscle and you end up with a lot of dark meat. you get the same with truly free range chickens.  this is nothing to worry about and i have never seen a quail which does not look like that.  source: my mum had a poultry farm. 	
to break the title down into parts:    there exist serology tests that detect the amount of an antibody  ab  against a specific pathogen/antigen. every human produces their own ab for a specific antigen by  relatively  random combination of different gene segments in their b cells, until one that recognizes the pathogen is found and produced in massive amounts. one portion of every ab is constant, whereas the portion that recognizes the antigen is variable. even for antibodies  in different humans  that recognize the same antigen, albeit to a lesser degree.   what exactly does an antibody titer/serology test detect in the blood so that it can accurately measure the amount of antibodies against a specific antigen  i am assuming they use antibodies against the antigen-binding/variable portion of an antibody. but if the variable region differs from person to person, how can a universal antibody  to be used in serology tests  against it be generated    is the variable region not that variable, so that any lab-generated antibody against any functional antibody against a virus works well enough for an accurate measurement of antibodies against that virus  but even so the concept sounds hard to believe since even a single antigen can have multiple epitopes, and one person might have an ab for epitope 1 of antigen x, while the other would have an ab for epitope 2 of antigen x. and they would still be immune to the same virus, while a universal ab titer test for the virus would be unable to detect antibodies from one of them.  do they perhaps employ multiple lab-generated antibodies against most of the possible variations of human-generated antibodies in the tests   answer specific antibodies are typically detected using elisa.  the way you make a test for an antibody to a particular pathogen is not by using secondary antibodies to the specific part of the target antibody, but by using the antigen.  different kits work differently, but the general idea is that you have antigen stuck to a surface, you put the sample on that surface. if there are antibodies to the antigen, they stick to it. then you wash everything away and add a tagged antibody that binds to generic human antibodies.  see also http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic 	
is it safe to use the lift in my building. there are about 1500 apartments in the complex answer is it safe to use the lift in my building. there are about 1500 apartments in the complex yes. you have to ensure that you maintain proper hand hygeine and respiratory hygiene. you can even try disposable gloves and face mask to protect yourself from catching the infection through the lift buttons.	
i was reading this article on the culture secretary calling for ofcom to take action against the london live tv station. yesterday, april 8th, the station broadcast an interview with david icke, the same conspiracy theorist who claimed that a link between 5g and the covid-19 pandemic exists in a live broadcast on youtube which caused youtube to alter its policies on removing covid-19 misinformation.   in this latest broadcast, icke reportedly accused israel of  using coronavirus to test its technology . the culture secretary, oliver dowden, said:    you are absolutely right these are lunatic conspiracy theories and no  sensible person would give them a moment is thought. clearly that  station is regulated by ofcom and i would be expecting ofcom to take  appropriate action. clearly they are independent  ofcom , but i will be  in touch with them to understand what action they are taking in  respect to that.   the article also gives the example of a isanction  by ofcom:    and a community radio station was sanctioned by ofcom last month after  it broadcast conspiracy theories about coronavirus.    uckfield fm was forced to apologise after a programme featured a guest  presented to listeners as a health professional, but who made claims  covid-19 was linked to the rollout of 5g.   being forced to apologise does not seem like that harsh a punishment personally, and with a quick search, i could not see whether ofcom has any sanction powers beyond this. what powers does ofcom have to impose sanctions, and what form can these sanctions take   answer ofcom is powers with regard to wireless telegraphy  i.e. radio  and television broadcasts and broadcasters are provided for by the broadcasting acts and the communications act 2003.  ofcom can issue a warning, direction or fine, suspend or restrict the broadcaster is activities, revoke the broadcaster is licence or bring criminal proceedings.   directions may include  broadcast an apology / correction / statement .  generally the maximum fine for commercial radio is ps250,000 or 5  the broadcaster is  qualifying revenue , whichever is the greater. there is a settlement process providing for discounts.  revocation of the licence would make it unlawful for the broadcaster to broadcast in the uk.  ofcom is current penalty guidelines at the time of writing can be found in this pdf and its procedures for investigating alleged breaches of content standards can be found in this pdf. they are changed from time to time - both kinds of documents can be downloaded via ofcom is policies and guidelines page.  ofcom purports to want to avoid disproportionately infringing on freedom of expression, and to discourage bad behaviour and encourage good behaviour. hence the outcome of this case, instead of something worse.  for the case to which you refer, you can read ofcom is reasoning in this pdf found via the bulletins section of ofcom is website. 	
has the world health organisation  who  or any government anywhere conducted random tests for covid-19   it is announced today that in britain they are going to step up the testing from 1,500 people per day to 10,000. will any of these be from a random cohort   it would seem to me that one random batch of say 5,000 people would tell us a lot about the extent of infection in the community, and hence the relative dangers of getting the disease.  if the results of an election can be accurately predicted from a random opinion poll survey of 1000 people, then it would seem that we could learn a lot about the virus from random testing - in different parts of the country - and something well worth doing   answer the small italian town of vo has tested and retested its entire population.    through testing and retesting of all 3,300 inhabitants of the town of vo, near venice, regardless of whether they were exhibiting symptoms, and rigorous quarantining of their contacts once infection was confirmed, health authorities have been able to completely stop the spread of the illness there.     ...     the first testing round, carried out on the town is entire population in late february, found 3 per cent of the population infected, though half of the carriers had no symptoms. after isolating all those infected, the second testing round about 10 days later showed the infection rate had dropped to 0.3 per cent.     aggressive testing helps italian town cut new coronavirus cases to zero , financial times, 2020-03-17  	
can you get covid-19 more than once  answer the short answer: we do not know yet. it is not yet clear whether people can be reinfected by this coronavirus or how long immunity might last after infection. immunity after recovery from covid-19 would be a boon in the global fight to rein in the virus. people who have recovered and gained immunity would be especially valuable as health care workers. the spread of the virus would slow if more people had immunity to it. and antibodies from recovered people could help in developing a treatment for the disease. as npr is nell greenfieldboyce has reported, scientists are looking for clues about immunity to and reinfection from other coronaviruses. the severe coronaviruses sars and mers did produce antibodies in those who had the virus. in the case of mers, survivors generated an immune response to the virus that could be detected up to two years later. and the sicker the patient was, the more long lasting their immune response. but in the case of the four seasonal coronaviruses that are a cause of the common cold, they can sicken people over and over again. after infection with one of these viruses, antibodies are produced -- but then the levels slowly decline and people become susceptible again. there are some indications that the new coronavirus, officially known as sars-cov-2, can spur immunity. new not-yet-peer-reviewed research in rhesus macaques found that the new coronavirus does not cause reinfections.  i think there is a very likely scenario where the virus comes through this year, and everyone gets some level of immunity to it, and if it comes back again, we will be protected from it,  matt frieman, a coronavirus researcher at the university of maryland school of medicine in baltimore, told npr.  either completely or if you do get reinfected later, a year from now, then you have much less disease.   that is the hope,  he adds.  but there is no way to know that. 	
somewhat controversially, china has had temporarily relocated those infected with covid-19 in the wuhan area to so-called fangcang hospitals, large communal areas transformed into make-shift hospitals. although there were up to 13 fangcang hospitals opened at one point in wuhan, these were apparently all closed by march 10.    fangcang shelter hospitals may seem similar to the makeshift and emergency field hospitals used during previous epidemics in other countries, for example, in the usa during the 1918-19 influenza pandemic, or in african countries during the 2014-15 ebola epidemic. however, they differ in several important ways. first, the fangcang shelter hospitals in china were established to isolate the patients who were most likely to transmit the infection because they had only mild to moderate covid-19 and were thus likely to be active in their daily lives and in contact with family and community members. second, the fangcang shelter hospitals served an important triage function, separating patients by severity of symptoms, which was not a focus of previous makeshift and emergency field hospitals.  ...    these fangcang hospitals should not be confused with the other kind of emergency hospitals that china had built earlier, for those more seriously sick with covid-19, such as the huoshenshan hospital.  the latter was a prefab hospital with separate rooms.   i have heard that some countries are already considering converting open-space structures to some kind of emergency/extra hospitals, e.g. as seen in this us footage. while the open-space conversion resembles more a fangcang than the other type of prefab chinese hospital, what do know about plans to mass-quarantine the mild cases in such open-space-conversion hospitals elsewhere, i.e. do  any of  these resemble fangcangs in  intended  function, not just in looks   answer yes, several countries are planning to implement this approach, and in some cases, already have. on march 12th, the european centre for disease prevention and control  ecdc , an eu agency, updated its rapid risk assessment on the covid-19 pandemic, in which it advises states to     designate treatment facilities both for mild and for severe covid-19 cases with critical care capabilities  e.g. ecmo . this  implies activation of hospital plans to the highest level to be able to cancel elective diagnostic and operative procedures and  re-assign human resources, creating temporary treatment facilities for the mild cases or advising self-isolation until  symptoms improve or worsen.   the who also released guidance to this effect on march 17th, reiterating that     who recommends that all laboratory confirmed cases be isolated and  cared for in a health care facility.     ...     if all mild cases cannot be isolated in health facilities, then those  with mild illness and no risk factors may need to be isolated in  non-traditional facilities, such as repurposed hotels, stadiums or  gymnasiums where they can remain until their symptoms resolve and  laboratory tests for covid-19 virus are negative.   in madrid, this advice was implemented with a temporary hospital set up in the ifema conference centre. the first patients arrived at the facility on march 21st, and initially had a capacity for 200 patients with amild  cases of covid-19. capacity will eventually be extended to 1300 beds, with a small number of icu units in case these mild cases progress to severe cases.  hotel via castellana has also been converted  article in spanish  to a temporary hospital for mild cases, with six of the hospital is floors converted to facilities for the lightly ill, and a seventh converted to house medical staff.  in south korea, this strategy has also been used - the wsj reports that in order to solve the issue of hospital overcrowding:    south korea divided confirmed patients into four categories. only the  sickest and elderly went to hospitals. the young and asymptomatic went  to dormitories, which were lent by samsung life insurance co., lg  display co. and others, equipped with little more than beds, wi-fi and  the occasional television.    the decision ensured that low-risk individuals remained quarantined  under government watch. thousands of south korea is virus patients have  ridden out the past several weeks living in buildings where companies  typically put up workers for off-site, multiday training.   in the phillipines,  emergency quarantine facilities   eqfs  are being planned, temporary centres designed for  patients who are waiting for test results or have mild symptoms but are not in dire straits -- a way to keep potentially infected people separate from their communities.   many countries, however, have chosen not to adopt this strategy, instead advising those with mild to moderate symptoms to self-isolate, prioritising hospital beds, including field hospital beds, for those most at risk or with the worst symptoms. in singapore, the country had enough hospital capacity to deal with all patients, including those with mild symptoms, due in part to the amount of testing and contact tracing which was used to isolate and quarantine cases. 	
back in january, i booked to stay in hotel disneyland santa fe in march  in paris . due to the effect covid-19 has had in everyday life and travel, disneyland paris had to close including the hotels for guests who were not there at the time of the closing down decision. i contacted booking.com 5 days before my stay at the hotel and explained the situation and they said they would get back to me in 24 hours.   in the meantime, i contacted the hotel and they said that i should only deal with booking.com as it is their booking to manage. the hotels in disneyland paris also announced that for the visitors affected they would offer either a full refund or a chance to reschedule for a later date whilst keeping the same charge for the rooms as the ones in their original booking.   now booking.com says that since the reservation was not cancelled beforehand and they are unable to cancel it after the arrival date has passed, they can only offer me half of the money back. i should note that on my initial phone call with them i was not told to cancel the booking or do anything for that matter, as they would have to investigate the best way to resolve this.   the booking was made using my credit card, but since it was made in january, i am now out of the period that i can ask them to step in and withdraw the money and return them back to my account.   is there anything that i can do at this point to make sure i get my money back for a travel that i was not allowed to make considering the hotel was not accepting guests and the french government was cancelling my eurostar trains at the same time  eurostar, by the way, has issued a full refund since my trains got cancelled . alternatively is there any official route to report this behaviour or complain about it   i live in the uk if that is relevant at all.  answer you might be out of the period when you can request a chargeback, but you can still contact your credit card provider and require them to honour their obligations under section 75 of the consumer credit act if the cost was more than ps100, as there is no time limit on that. 	
you can easily find a lot of pictures of the sars-cov-2 virus. but although it should be trivial for an electron microscope to measure the size, i am not able to find accurate size information.  what is the size  diameter  of the sars-cov-2 virus   why does some virus particles seem to have a different size     answer   electron micrographs of negative-stained 2019-ncov particles were generally spherical with some pleomorphism  figure 3 . diameter varied from about 60 to 140 nm. virus particles had quite distinctive spikes, about 9 to 12 nm, and gave virions the appearance of a solar corona.   --a novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in china, 2019  figure 3 from that article:   	
we are adopting a new  rescue  cat next weekend. the rescue that we are getting him from recommends a 7-10 day isolation period before we introduce him to our current cats to make sure that he is not ill and does not transmit any illnesses to our other cats.  what illnesses and/or illness symptoms should i be on the lookout for   part of the recommended integration period also recommends taking bedding that smells like him and putting it where our other cats can smell it and vice versa  so they can smell each other before meeting . should i wait to do this until after the isolation period, or a certain number of days through the isolation period to make sure that he does not have a skin disease   finally  out of curiosity , i have medical records on our new cat for the past month  his second worming is tomorrow, he is had fel/fiv testing, etc . if this was a stray cat off the street, would the isolation period be longer/different   answer this is a bit late, but for others doing the same. the main things to monitor in new/stray cats are appetite, vomition, lethargy, runny poops, struggling or inability to urinate and breathing and eye problems. common diseases/conditions that hit suddenly includes feline herpiesvirus  eyes, mouth, lungs , feline corona virus  appetite, diarrhoea , stress  urination problems .  as a stray you unfortunately do not know the history and diseases like feline leukaemia  felv  and feline aids  fiv  is a definitely a possibility, even if they are vaccinated, but for example not tested. these diseases can take months to show clinical signs  weight loss, inappetance, lethargy, fever, other diseases, etc. etc.  	
what are the lockdown measures and travel bans in place in the region  answer wuhan, a central city in china, implemented a lockdown on january 23 when the city is borders were closed, incoming and outgoing flights cancelled, public transport halted, and movement of people restricted. since then, other places in china and across asia have implemented different degrees of travel bans and lockdown measures to curb the spread of covid-19. more...	
so far it appears that western countries especially in europe  e.g. italy, spain, uk, france, germany  struggle to curb the spread of covid-19. this is in contrast to most asian countries  china, south korea, japan, singapore  which were hit by the virus earlier, but managed to reduce the contagion through drastic containment measures.  while it is probably too soon to evaluate the effect of the strong measures which have been implemented in the past few days in many european countries, it looks as if western countries have been reluctant and/or unable and/or inefficient at implementing the methods used in asia to fight the contagion. it also looks as if asian countries are expected to be more disciplined and/or organized than western countries  example .  are there any objective reasons why western countries are less efficient than asian countries in the fight against covid-19   added: for example, are there different political choices which were made before and during the outbreak  are there structural differences, for instance in the way governments can deploy resources in a crisis    answer part of it is going to be that the region  hk, singapore, sk , china  was hit much harder during the 2003 sars epidemic so spent more time getting prepared.  also, it has long been the expectation that the next epidemic would come out of china, both due to population density and proximity to livestock/wild animals, so those countries could expect another  gift  from their chinese neighbors.  japan  it is relatively unscathed so far, but it is an isolated island, with comparatively few foreigners which is not on great terms with its asian neighbors. as  bobsburner mentioned,  travel density  counts for a great deal with covid-19. for now - counting it as luck, might become skill later. or its success might just be down to not-testing, as  steros says.  supply chains are in asia. this is being shown as an achilles  heel of western service-oriented economies: if we need to ramp production of electronic testing kits or ventilators, we are cut off from a lot of the world is manufacturing capacity.  collectivism vs. individualism has a part to play in it as well: it is more difficult for a western politician to push drastic measures like quarantine  let alone china is dictatorial system . still, italy was pretty quick to do so, because they had no choice. still, the cultural traits leading to quick acceptance by the community of harsh limitations on individual liberties seems to be an asian advantage at this point:  here is a medical sciences stack exchange answer re. isolation, testing and surveillance procedures followed in guangdong, near hk, so not wuhan at all. an article partly covering wuhan itself. and we have heard of the one-week hospitals. we are just not there yet, in terms of mobilization. or coercion.  constant deficit spending. a country like italy is at 130   gdp debt. they have resisted pressure to shape up their finances, tax collection, pension payments, etc... for decades. they just do not have anything left to surge spending in emergencies. this applies to just too many european economies.  it is also really too early to say much about the final outcome. currently south korea and china are better at getting the disease under control, but what really counts is the long run. if a few dozen people in wuhan spread the disease rapidly in january then we need to be ready to wait this out for a while -  social distancing  amp  quarantines  for 3 months, then relaxing will result in restarted epidemics.  there is also, esp. at the start, plain luck. the 2003 sars epidemic hit canada is west coast less than toronto, because a doctor got bad vibes about a patient with breathing problems and she isolated them, before any outbreak was known. in toronto the same type of cases mingled with the general hospital staff and patients and the outbreak was much worse. in italy 1 covid case was not identified as such and went to the hospital 4 times, interacting with everyone else. s. korea had a massive cluster early on, but it was within a religious sect, which might interact less with others.  it is hard to really assign a  good vs bad  label to early spread. past that, the quality of political leaders and their ability to balance out economic/social reality vs medical advice  which is still operating in uncertainty - witness the uk is  herd  approach  is going to be key. this is a good time to be listening to experts, and there some of the asian technocrats are a definite better bet than some of the west is populists. i know i would not be thrilled to have duterte in the philippines in charge, for example, and he is asian.  rather than competition and comparisons, it might be useful to see what has been achieved so far: to some extent s. korea and china have shown that aggressive testing and quarantines can slow the disease, australia was very quick to sequence the bug is genome, we got a test within weeks  and some western countries are starting to look at and evaluate candidate vaccines. we are much better off in 2020 than if sars had had that kind of punch in 2003. 	
my 5-year-old son started developing a dry cough yesterday  yay... . he has trouble remembering to cover his mouth when he coughs, despite our reminding him every time he does it, and despite in the past during extended illnesses him finally catching on after our repeating reminders.  given the possibility of covid-19 being the cough source, we want to extra make sure the cause of his cough is spread as little through the house as possible. is there a way to quickly and effectively get him in the habit of covering his mouth the moment he feels a cough or sneeze coming on   answer getting someone into the habit of doing anything requires repetition, as that is what a habit is largely: a settled or regular tendency or practice.   the best way to establish a habit in a child from my experience is to gently remind them to do the habitual action immediately after the  cue  for the action. in this case, it would be to:   hear your child cough if they did not cover: remind them to cover their mouth praise them for covering their mouth   the praise is appropriate either if they did cover their mouth, or if they did not but they covered their mouth when you told them to  yes, this is pointless, but it establishes the habit .   there are some more rigorous explanations of this method, such as here  that site goes into some detail about the relationship between  cue ,  routine , and  reward .   it is not something that will happen instantly, but it does work over time. the key is not to be upset when they fail - do not be negative about it at all. just be positive. polite reminder to do the action  do not forget to cover your mouth  , praise for doing it  good job covering your mouth , and then repeat  	
does getting pneumonia shots given to elderly people help if you get this virus  answer vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and haemophilusinfluenzae type b vaccine, do not provide protection against the newcoronavirus,  according to the world healthorganization  http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public/myth-busters . the vaccines simply guardagainst those specific bacterial infections.the covid-19 virus can, in fact, cause pneumonia, but the vaccines cannotprevent this pneumonia.	
how do we ensure human rights and reduce stigma and discrimination  answer as the world scales up public health responses to the covid19 pandemic, countries are being urged to take decisive action to control the epidemic. who has urged all countries to ensure an appropriate balance between protecting health, preventing economic and social disruption, and respecting human rights. who is working with partners including the unaids joint programme and the global network of people living with hiv to ensure that human rights are not eroded in the response to covid-19 and to ensure that people living with or affected by hiv are offered the same access to services as others and to ensure hiv-related services continue without disruption.to mitigate potential prison outbreaks of covid19 and reduce morbidity and mortality among people in prisons and other closed settings, it is crucial that prisons and immigration detention centres are embedded within the broader public health response. this requires close collaboration between health and justice ministries and includes protocols for entry screening, personal protection measures, physical distancing, environmental cleaning and disinfection, and restriction of movement, including limitation of transfers and access for non-essential staff and visitors. in the current context it is of critical importance that countries work toward developing non-custodial strategies to prevent overcrowding in closed settings 10 . governance of prison health by a ministry of health, rather than a ministry of justice or similar, is likely to facilitate this 11 .	
looking at the dna  or rna   sequence of the covid-19 virus here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/mn908947.3  i notice it ends in 33 a is. does the virus really look like that, or is it some artifact of the sequencing process, or some sort of padding to round out numbers   here is the last few lines:  29761 acagtgaaca atgctaggga gagctgccta tatggaagag ccctaatgtg taaaattaat 29821 tttagtagtg ctatccccat gtgattttaa tagcttctta ggagaatgac aaaaaaaaaa 29881 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa   answer this is a poly a  tail, which is a feature found in the majority of eukaryotic rnas  especially mrna  and is also not uncommon in rna viruses  which essentially mimic endogenous mrna for their own replication . as with mrna, this poly a  tail in coronaviruses is bound by poly a  binding protein in the cytoplasm  1 , which is involved in translation initiation. in coronaviruses, this poly a  tail is also necessary for replication independent of its role in translation  2 .    1  lin y-j, liao c-l, lai mm. 1994. identification of the cis-acting signal for minus-strand rna synthesis of a murine coronavirus: implications for the role of minus-strand rna in rna replication and transcription. j virol 68 12 :8131-8140.   2  spagnolo jf, hogue bg. 2000. host protein interactions with the 3  end of bovine coronavirus rna and the requirement of the poly  a  tail for coronavirus defective genome replication. j virol 74 11 :5053-5065. 	
how many people have recovered from the virus  answer more than 191,000 people worldwide have recovered from the virus as ofwednesday, according to  data from johns hopkinsuniversity  http://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6 .most of the recoveries have been in china, followed by spain, germany, italyand iran.of the more than 203,000 confirmed cases in the u.s., more than 8,000 haverecovered.	
this article describes the efforts of several european union countries to agree to issue  corona bonds  or  eurobonds , which are a joint eu mechanism to issue joint debt shared between different countries. this measure is being proposed in order to  mitigate the economic impact of the coronavirus . it says:     we need to recognize the severity of the situation and the necessity  for further action to buttress our economies today,  the heads of  state of italy, france, belgium, greece, portugal, spain, ireland,  slovenia and luxembourg said wednesday in a joint letter seen by cnbc.     ...      we need to work on a common debt instrument issued by a european  institution to raise funds on the market on the same basis and to the  benefits of all member states,  the nine heads of state said.   given that there does not seem to be any restriction on european union countries issuing their own government bonds, what are the benefits of these new proposed instruments over this conventional measure   answer expanding on the answer by tin nguyen, the euro is a a common currency for nations with separate economic policies and separate national debts. being a member of the eurozone stops nations from devaluating their currency to compensate for changing economic fundamentals.  before and during the 2007 financial crisis bonds from e.g. greece or italy had a risk premium compared to german bonds despite the fact that both were government bonds in the same currency. there were even signs that futures traders were driving this premium up by betting against certain governments, or on nations leaving the eurozone. the famous  whatever it takes  speech by draghi calmed that.  the financial consequences of the corona pandemic are not yet known, but it is clear that italy and spain will be hit hard. that will increase the risk on a default on national debt which increases the interest which investors demand. of course that further hinders economic recovery.  if the eurozone members jointly guarantee bonds, that lowers the interest payments for the less stable economies and possibly increases the interest for the more stable ones. this might or might not be to the benefit of the eu as a whole and the stronger members individually  since they all benefit from a strong eurozone , but the more or less clearly voiced suspicion is that corona is used as an excuse to enact a permanent transfer mechanism. 	
are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure covid-19  answer while some western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of covid-19, there is no evidence that current medicine can prevent or cure the disease. who does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for covid-19. however, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both western and traditional medicines. who will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings are available.	
there is news out regarding a 60-day extension for california residents  affected by the covid-19 virus , but the wording they use is so vague. everyone was affected.   do they mean directly contracted the virus  or is this truly everyone in california can have an extra 60 days to file and pay   answer it applies to  california taxpayers affected by the covid-19 pandemic . according to this faq, you do not need to have been directly impacted by covid-19 to qualify. you qualify if you  experience any difficulty in filing or paying, as a result of covid-19 . admittedly, this is still vague. i believe that it is on the honor system. basically anyone in california who believes they experienced any difficulty with taxes can claim this 60-day extension. 	
how long does the virus survive on surfaces  answer it is not certain how long the virus that causes covid-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. studies suggest that coronaviruses  including preliminary information on the covid-19 virus  may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. this may vary under different conditions  e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment . if you think a surface may be infected, clean it with a simple disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others. clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. avoid touching your eyes, mouth, or nose.	
who is most at risk of catching coronavirus  answer people over 65 are at higher risk of more severe symptoms, as are those with pre-existing conditions like heart disease or asthma.  unlike during the influenza outbreak in 2009, pregnant women do not seem to be at greater risk of contracting coronavirus.	
in light of the coronavirus outbreak centred in wuhan, many countries have taken steps to either prevent entry or require a quarantine period for arrivals from the affected area.   canada relies on arrivals declaring whether or not they have been to wuhan in the past 14 days. yes, some people will tell the truth. but some will not. with 2019 ncov, someone who was in wuhan the past two weeks can just lie.   why do not g8 countries just assume most people will lie and prepare for worst    answer i have not heard about any country denying entry or quarantining all travellers from affected areas. isolation  at home  is recommended for people who have been in the area and present relevant symptoms. refusing entry wholesale would be a hugely disruptive and largely self-defeating measure: it encourages people to lie, could spread the disease further by making potentially contagious victims stay longer in a public place -- the airport -- and through another international flight, would make  crucial  collaboration with airlines or affected countries a lot more difficult.  extending it to all travellers from china  since you do not want to rely on people self-reported itinerary  would be pure madness  and there are already cases reported in japan and the us... so you might as well shut down international air travel entirely . it also raises the question of returning nationals or third-country citizens, who cannot easily be refused entry and put back on a plane to the affected area.  consequently, the question is not designed to catch people who try to defeat screening but to inform people who might not otherwise understand they are at risk and make sure they realize this information is relevant. it is more efficient than asking every passenger verbally and helps officials respond appropriately in situations where oral communication might be more difficult. it is also potentially a database you can come back to for contact tracing. 	
can the us increase its capacity for covid-19 testing fast enough to accomplish simultaneously:  1  slowing the spread of disease to allow hospitals to provide care for the infected, and  2  minimizing the impact on the economy by allowing social distancing measures to be relaxed  e.g. reopening schools and restaurants    is there a testing strategy that can accomplish this and what kind of resources would it require   see a related question here.  edit: the acla expects us labs to be able to do 280,000 tests per week by april 1st  acla.com . what if the full weight of the federal government was behind this ramp-up in capability   edit2: tom frieden recently wrote  vox.com  that  testing is not a panacea,  but he goes on to say that     testing is absolutely, crucially important ...in areas with few or no cases, to inform containment and isolation strategies and facilitate contact tracing. seattle would likely have had a much smaller outbreak if testing there had been widely available sooner.    the containment strategy right now seems to be evolving toward one in which the entire country is on lockdown. could we do more targeted  but equally effective  containment if we had a clearer picture of where the virus was  note: conversely, frieden warns against widespread testing in areas of confirmed community transmission.  answer well, i am no epidemiologist and have neither the required data nor their simulation tools at hand. however:  while testing is of course needed, i doubt that more testing can compensate for lack of distancing now.   also, there is japan with social distancing but low numbers of tests with slow curve, and south korea does not only test but also practice social distancing. there are also countries with lots of tests / inhabitant and heavy increases, italy for example.    how are screening tests different from what is done now.   slight disclaimer: i am in germany, so i know most details about the strategy here. afaik, it is not that different in the us, though. at least, also here people are complaining that they get tests refused and people are talking that test capacities are not unlimited - but it is not clear to me whether people are sent home who should be tested according to a doctor ordering that test or only those who go/drive to the test centers because they think they should be tested.   what is done right now in most countries  including italy, germany, south korea  is testing populations that are at a non-negligible risk of having contracted the virus. looking at the current  mar 19  numbers of positive tests among all tests  germany  and using lr  of better than 20  below in parentheses and expected 61 and lr- of better than 1/20  below in parentheses , expected 1/61  see long explanation here      pos tests/tests   ppv   1-npv ------------ ----------------- ------------- ------------------ usa   11     88    72      0.2    0.6     germany   3.9     south korea   2.8     64    36      0.05    0.01       ppv   probability of having sars-cov-2 after the test was positive 1-npv   probability of having sars-cov-2 after the test was negative    there is the implicit assumption that everyone is tested with that same test - which is not true, the south koreans by now may have better validation data, but i do not know this   screening means testing the normal population, which  still  has much lower prevalence of sars-cov-2. assuming the dark number is 99 x the known case count  i.e. we have 100x as many infected as positive test results ,     100 cases/inhabitants   ppv   1-npv ------------ ----------------------- ---------------- ------------------ low risk   1 in 10000   0.01     0.6     0.2       lt 0.01   usa   0.36     18     6.7      0.2    0.6     south korea   1.6     50    25      0.05    0.01     germany   2.0     54  28      0.03    0.1    germany    0.4     20     7.4       lt 0.01    0.02       with that assumed large dark numbers, germany and south korea would both have prevalences by now where using the existing test on the general population would start to make sense, as that would mean only 1 false positive case per true positive case. on the other hand, with prevalence in the single digit percent we would be in the region where frieden argues that testing of the general population does not make sense because it makes more sense to tell people to stay at home and away from contacts  which is the case for germany - and since the numbers are not growing as fast in south korea, their dark number is probably much lower .   in the low risk population  where frieden says testing would make sense , we would have only correct 1 out of about 200 positive cases. the ppv is for many practical considerations too low: screening needs very good tests, with very high sensitivity and specificity. sensitivity, because it is crucial here not to overlook truly positive cases, and specificity because the true positives are otherwise hidden in army of false positives.   to some extent, it is often possible to trade in some sensitivity for speificity and vice versa, e.g. with hiv test for blood donors, we do exactly this: we choose a very high sensitivity  so we can be sure not to infect anyone , and accept low specificity. so low, that a blood donor with positive hiv test is not even told that they were tested positive. instead, another test is applied  preferably by another manufacturer, because that adds more information than duplicate testing with the same kit , and if that is still positive, yet another one  a more elaborate one . after that iirc it is still more probable that the blood donor does not have hiv, but they is be looking into it and taking anothe blood sample.   and the decision for the donated blood is anyways to throw it away just to be on the safe side .   in principle we could do the same for sars-cov-2. chaining lab tests would mean an enormous burden to the health system of dealing with false positives  and possibly re-testing people  at a time where we do not have unlimited health resources and where the probability that the false positive anyways catches the virus next day or so is non-negligible. this makes this strategy that starts from testing low risk population a complete waste of ressources  even if we had unlimited capacity for testing . this may change in the future when we have tests where proper full validation has shown that they have very good specificity and a useful sensitivity.  what we do currently, is not very different though in principle: we do currently chain two independent tests, just that the lab test comes 2nd: first a doctor comes and tests whether you are high risk group because you had contact with confirmed cases  maybe even 2nd order contacts  or you show symptoms. then comes the lab test.   now the germany  line in the table above is an interesting additional point. the prevalence there is from the influenza sentinel data from week 11  last week . these are samples collected from people who were not sent to sars-cov-2 tests, but who went to a doctor with flu-like symptoms. 1 out of 251 was sars-cov-2 positive  and also influenza positive . the practically important point is: what did we miss because that sars-cov-2 case was overlooked  or would have been, had they not been in the sentinel sampling   actually, nothing: someone with the flu is told to stay at home and not infect anyone else pretty much like someone with sars-cov-2  particularly now since it would also relieve the health system if the seasonal influenza would be overcome a bit faster .   testing in areas with few infections  frieden does not propose screening, though: he proposes testing people who have been in contact with infected ones. which apparently did not work out in seattle, from what i read due to a lack of tests - but it did work out in germany where it allowed to completely stop the first  small  outbreak in january.  here, the  had  2nd order  contact to infected person  is the first test in the chain. this is a containment strategy, not a delay strategy.   in order for this to work, we need a two  ingredients : we must be able to trace the contacts  and better also 2nd order contacts , and people sent to quarantine must obey this quarantine.   comparison germany - south korea  mainly   ... the us is left as excercise to the informed reader   south korea apparently makes extensive use of autamated tracing of people in a fashion that would be completely unconstitutional in germany.  south korea does use social distancing: according to wikipedia they also shut down kindergardens, schools, and universities postponed their semester start. it did not have quite the same impact on overall economy that we see in germany now. their shutdown apparently was not all over the country, but earlier: they did that when they had 1000 cases.  apparently the population did a whole lot of that volountarily: the wiki page says the streets of daegu were empty on feb 20  when they had a total of 100 cases . in contrast, germany now has 15 k cases, and pretty much an official shutdown since the weekend in terms of kindergardens/schools/universities, pubs/clubs/... and apparently there is a sizeable sub-population that gives in to the urgent need of having their own big     parties since pubs are closed.  i can only speak from what i read in the news, i live in rural germany where my sports clubs canceled everything - but the neighbors had a 4 generation party  not that many people, but...  for their new house yesterday.  otoh, we have 8.5 confirmed cases per 100k inhabitants here, so even with that factor 100 for dark number, we are still below 1   prevalence now   what seems to be similar: in south korea young adults are the ones who spread the virus. similar in germany  more middle-aged initially  those who can afford to make skiing holidays in the alps , now the corona-parties are a young adult thing  i believe east asia is in general more on the alert than we were. mers and sars are cited as reasons, but of course overall high population density also means a permanently increased risk of infectious disesases. the wiki page about covid-19 in south korea indicates similar testing capacity for south korea  10k tests/day  51 mio inhabitants  and germany  16k tests/day  80 mio inhabitants    some countries with more or less flat curves and more or less testing  per mio inhabitants :   south korea so far done about 6000 tests / mio inhabitants italy 7300 / mio  maybe a bit late, but the main thing that was late in italy is that for a while they did not realize they had sars-cov-2  japan only 117/mio - but they have a very slow growth, still less than 1000 cases and their curve is decidedly flattening. japan distances socially since feb 25th  incl. e.g. to stay at home and not go to a doctor with only mild cold-like symptoms  at 167 cases in the whole country. singapore practices certain measures of social distancing since late january when they had  lt  10 cases.  did not find testing numbers, though  norway has 6440 tests/mio inhabitants. hopeful look at curve suggests that a slight flattening may take place. they started their lockdown at    700 cases, a bit more than a week ago. germany has    2100 tests/mio. 100 k tests were done in week 11, current capacity is about 30 k tests/day  is currently ramping up .  substantial flattening at the earliest expected in about 2 weeks  usa: according to wikipedia 300 / mio inhabitants, but the german newspaper cites 3.5x as many tests, that would be 1100 / mio inhabitants.  the difference may be whether private lab tests are counted or not     the dutch test  ... is about antibodies whereas the other tests look for virus rna. these tests again good for different things:   the dutch test tells whether there has been sufficient exposure to the virus  and sufficient time thereafter  to build antibodies.  once we know more about this, it may also tell whether one is immune against sars-cov-2  as they say, this is also important for getting an idea about the dark numbers of people who have been infected, but had so mild symptoms they did not realize it. the other tests tell whether you currently have the virus  and are contagious .  screening for active cases needs this test - the more so as the antibody test may become positive only a while after one is already contagious.    simulitis  the washington post has simulations of the spread of a  easier, more basic  disease called simulitis with 4 scenarios, ranging from no measures at all over a not quite perfect quarantine to moderate and extensive social distancing  25   and 10   of the population run around as always, rest stays where they are . i highly recommend reading, but here are some runs i just did:    brown are active cases, violet cured/immune and blue susceptible persons.  important findig for this question: in the first part of the quarantine simulation, the quarantine worked an noone got out  1st hump . note that this hump has roughly the same height as the moderate social distancing hump, and leaky quarantine is worse  though the simulation does not get any newly infected into a new quarantine - i would say the quarantine situation may be less like real quarantine and more like totally closed borders vs. not-quite-free movement between two countries .  	
i have spent some time studying rna structures. while there is a range of interesting phenomena and functions that certainly deserve understanding from the scientific point of view, i have never encountered a practical use of this knowledge  in terms of disease diagnostics, medications, etc.  have you  if a practical use of rna structures is still in the future, what could that be    answer please look up flavivirus wouldouble loops  as you described them previously  post for  coronavirus rna   and associated rna secondary structure anomalies for dengue virus and associated vaccine  butantan  and the yellow fever virus and its vaccine  17d . if you are aware of  double loops , we must be aware of the association of rna secondardy structure and attenuated strains, i.e. live vaccines. the point is that modification of the rna secondary structure is a key strategy in flavivirus attenuation.  	
am i at risk for covid-19 from a package or products shipping from china  answer there is still a lot that is unknown about covid-19 and how it spreads. this coronaviruses is thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets. although the virus can survive for a short period on some surfaces, it is unlikely to be spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures. currently there is no evidence to support transmission of covid-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of covid-19 in the united states associated with imported goods. information will be provided on the coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  website as it becomes available.	
we are witnessing the financial and personal repercussions of the spread of the corona virus that originated in wuhan. it seems that the virus started spreading possibly as early as mid-november with the chinese government trying to hide/downplay/minimize the issue at hand. given the chinese government failure to:   prevent the sale of raw animal meat and enforce the necessary sanitary measures to avoid human contact with raw meat. allowing farming and selling of wild animals, which was than corrected later by issuing a law banning such sales, thus admitting the problem. properly contain the spread in wuhan by acknowledging the alarm calls of the local doctors and first signs that an unknown strain of corona virus was circulating.   is it possible for governments and private companies, i imagine only the most powerful ones, to sue the chinese government to seek financial compensation for the damages occurred worlwide   i imagine that if a private company would accidentally leak a virus outside a lab, such company would be liable for all damages, why is a government not liable for any damage in this case  can, theoretically, chinese or citizens from other countries sue the chinese government for the loss of loved ones   answer the main problem is that there is no court with authority to hear this case outside of china. it may be futile to sue in us courts, since china will not enforce us judgments. you can sue a chinese company in chinese court, under their civil procedure law, but this pertains to contract breach. the question is whether there is any law under which the government of china can be sued for negligence - it is unlikely that that is possible  perhaps there is an expert in chinese law here who can address that issue .  this lawsuit is filed in us courts. it is based on the foreign sovereign immunities act. supposing that this lawsuit is successful in us courts, then the question is what enforcement actions are possible. since the defendants are various governments and government agencies in china, execution of the judgment would have to be against those defendants - you can not seize the assets of every person with some connection to china. but given the nature of the chinese government, it is possible that us courts could find that the assets of chinese companies are effectively government assets.  the short answer is, in fact a lawsuit has been filed, and i expect more. i also do not expect them to succeed in the long run. 	
how does coronavirus get transmitted  answer covid-19 can be passed from person to person through droplets from coughs and sneezes. 	
we cannot take photos of protons because they are not at least the size of the wavelength that registers into visible light. i see photos of coronavirus in the news everywhere where there is a clear distinctive gray ball with red petal shown in such great details. how is that photo taken  is that just an artistic impression or a real photo   answer pictures like this can be taken with an electron microscope, where the effective wavelength of the illuminating beam is far shorter than that of visible light. those pictures are in black  amp  white only  electrons do not have  color   but are then color-coded with tools like photoshop to highlight particular structures on their surfaces.   furthermore, once the exact structure of the protein molecules that form the virus has been figured out, molecular biologists can then apply computer models to the protein structures and determine with great accuracy how they fold together and interlock to create a complete virus particle.   those modeled structures can then be color-coded as well, again in the interest of highlighting where the different protein molecules are located and how they project out from the surface of the protein.   the pictures you see of ball-shaped virus particles with lumpy, colored knobs studding their surfaces were prepared in this way.  	
what has been the impact on the chinese and global economies  answer the steps taken to contain the outbreak, such as locking down areas and shutting down traffic flows, have shut down businesses and forced consumers to stay home. many people have lost their jobs and their incomes, further reducing consumer spending, which makes up 60 per cent of the china economy and 70 per cent of that in the west. more...	
i adopted two middle-aged  or older   cats from the same shelter 3.5 years ago. both were healthy until recently when one developed fip. since i adopted them they have had no contact with other cats, aside from whatever happens behind the scenes at the vet is office.  according to this article from the cornell veterinary school, a cat can be exposed to the virus  with no symptoms  and develop fip years later. so it sounds like it is possible that my cat came to me already infected and the disease only manifested now.  it is also possible that the other cat is a carrier who transmitted it to him without getting sick himself.   when is a cat with future-fip infectious  only during an initial exposure to coronavirus  when my cat caught this , or from that time onward  only after developing fip  if a cat has been exposed to coronavirus in the past but has never shown symptoms of fip, can he transmit that coronavirus to other cats   i am trying to figure out the effect of this on my remaining cat, and whether i can safely adopt another cat to join him. there is no reliable test for fip other than biopsies, so at best testing can tell us if he is been exposed to coronavirus  the test looks for the antibodies . but my biggest concern is whether he could be infectious.  if he is also infected then, sadly, there is nothing we can do about that. we can only test for coronavirus and coronavirus does not always lead to fip from what i have read.   answer veterinary partner is a very reliable website that should be able to answer your questions on fip  your cat wont get fip by being with an fip   cat, it can however contract coronavirus. and yes as you mentioned, not all coronavirus cats will develop fip.  from my  common diseases of companion animals  textbook:    80  to 90  of cats in catteries have antibodies to fecv and these cats shed virus intermittently.   that being said by continuously disinfecting and only having one/two cat s  in your home you can eventually clear out fecv  most common household disinfectants work .  you can check your current cat what his current anti-body levels are for coronavirus if you are concerned about a new cat coming in as well.  an excerpt from veterinary partner on fecv:    an active infection lasts several weeks to a few months. virus is shed in the infected cat is stool during this period. if the cat is reinfected, virus sheds again for weeks to months. during this time, the cat may or may not seems at all ill. some infected cats do not shed virus.    the mutation to a form of virus that can cause fip is more likely to occur in an immune-compromised cat. most cats with fip are less than one year old  their immaturity is their immune compromise . crowding is also an important source of immune-compromise. another important factor in mutation is multiple exposure/infections. when cats keep getting reinfected, the virus they carry has more chance of mutating to a form that causes fip.   i have only seen 3 cases of fip in almost 4 years in practice, it is not very common. 	
why is it called the coronavirus     answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that infect animals and people. in february, the w.h.o. gave official names to both this virus  sars-cov-2, for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2  and the disease it causes  covid-19, for coronavirus disease 2019 . you may have heard it called the  new  or  novel  coronavirus, and those mean just what they sound like: that it is new.	
how are covid-19 and influenza viruses different  answer the speed of transmission is an important point of difference between the two viruses. influenza has a shorter median incubation period  the time from infection to appearance of symptoms  and a shorter serial interval  the time between successive cases  than covid-19 virus. the serial interval for covid-19 virus is estimated to be 5-6 days, while for influenza virus, the serial interval is 3 days. this means that influenza can spread faster than covid-19. further, transmission in the first 3-5 days of illness, or potentially pre-symptomatic transmission -transmission of the virus before the appearance of symptoms - is a major driver of transmission for influenza. in contrast, while we are learning that there are people who can shed covid-19 virus 24-48 hours prior to symptom onset, at present, this does not appear to be a major driver of transmission. the reproductive number - the number of secondary infections generated from one infected individual - is understood to be between 2 and 2.5 for covid-19 virus, higher than for influenza. however, estimates for both covid-19 and influenza viruses are very context and time-specific, making direct comparisons more difficult. children are important drivers of influenza virus transmission in the community. for covid-19 virus, initial data indicates that children are less affected than adults and that clinical attack rates in the 0-19 age group are low. further preliminary data from household transmission studies in china suggest that children are infected from adults, rather than vice versa.while the range of symptoms for the two viruses is similar, the fraction with severe disease appears to be different. for covid-19, data to date suggest that 80  of infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15  are severe infection, requiring oxygen and 5  are critical infections, requiring ventilation. these fractions of severe and critical infection would be higher than what is observed for influenza infection. those most at risk for severe influenza infection are children, pregnant women, elderly, those with underlying chronic medical conditions and those who are immunosuppressed. for covid-19, our current understanding is that older age and underlying conditions increase the risk for severe infection.mortality for covid-19 appears higher than for influenza, especially seasonal influenza. while the true mortality of covid-19 will take some time to fully understand, the data we have so far indicate that the crude mortality ratio  the number of reported deaths divided by the reported cases  is between 3-4 , the infection mortality rate  the number of reported deaths divided by the number of infections  will be lower. for seasonal influenza, mortality is usually well below 0.1 . however, mortality is to a large extent determined by access to and quality of health care.	
is coronavirus worse than the flu  answer many people diagnosed with the coronavirus will feel like they have the flu.  the main difference between covid-19 and the flu is that there is a lack of immunity in the community for the new coronavirus because there is no vaccine.  another difference is that the coronavirus appears to take about six to seven days to spread between people, whereas the flu can spread between people in four days.	
how long does the virus live on an object like a dollar bill  answer depending on the type of surface, the virus can stay on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days, according to the who. a recent study by scientists in the u.s. found that viable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air, up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to two to three days on plastic and stainless steel.     however, a subsequent report from the cdc found that genetic material from the virus can live on surfaces for more than two weeks. the cdc found traces of the virus  rna, not the coronavirus itself, on surfaces in the cabins of both symptomatic and asymptomatic infected passengers on the diamond princess cruise ship - 17 days after passengers had left the cabins.    it is possible that you can become infected if you touch your face after touching a surface or object that has the virus on it, according to the cdc. but scientists do not think surfaces are the main way that the virus spreads  the most common form of infection is from respiratory droplets spread by a person is cough or sneeze, the cdc reports.    meanwhile, the who says it is very unlikely that the virus will persist on a surface after being moved, traveled and exposed to different conditions and temperatures. that means the virus cannot spread through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting coronavirus cases.    at the same time, the who is reportedly encouraging people to use as many digital payment options as possible. viruses can survive on hard surfaces like coins for days in some cases. u.s dollars, a blend of fabric and paper, are harder for viruses to stick to.	
should children wear masks  answer cdc recommends that everyone 2 years and older wear a cloth face covering that covers their nose and mouth when they are out in the community. cloth face coverings should not be put on babies or children younger than 2 because of the danger of suffocation. children younger than 2 years of age are listed as an exception as well as anyone who has trouble breathing or is unconscious, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to remove the face covering without assistance. wearing cloth face coverings is a public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of covid-19 in addition to  not instead of  social distancing, frequent hand cleaning ,and other everyday preventive actions. a cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer but may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others. this would be especially important if someone is infected but does not have symptoms. medical face masks and n95 respirators are still reserved for healthcare personnel and other first responders, as recommended by current cdc guidance.	
can coronavirus be transmitted through secondhand smoke  answer  it is not the main mode of transmission. there is probably some component ofairborne, but i do not think secondhand smoke would be a compounding factor, said tania elliott, clinical instructor of infectious diseases at nyu langone.if the smoke irritates your lungs and causes you to cough, that poses agreater risk of transmission since the virus is thought to mainly spreadthrough respiratory droplets when someone coughs or sneezes, elliot said.smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to covid-19 as the act of smokingmeans that fingers and possibly dirty cigarettes are in contact with lips, according to the who  http://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/q-a-on-smoking-and-covid-19 . smokers may also already have lung disease or reducedlung capacity which would greatly increase risk of serious illness, the whosays.while data is still evolving about how long the virus may remain alive,  arecent study  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/  found thatviable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air.	
president trump speaking yesterday  feb 26th 2020  gave an update about the response of the us to the novel coronavirus outbreak. in an announcement that introduced a new team to tackle the virus, trump said that    because of all we have done  so far , the risk to the american people remains very low.   and that    it is what it is. we are ready for it. we are really prepared. we have, as i said, we have the greatest people in the world. we are very ready for it. we hope it does not spread. there is a chance that it will not spread, too. and there is a chance that it will.   the president is remarks were then followed by dr anne schuchat, principal deputy director of the centers for disease control and prevention, who reiterated the organisation is remarks of february 25th where the director of the cdc is national center for immunization and respiratory diseases, dr. nancy messonnier, said that:    ultimately, we expect we will see community spread in this country.   what measures, referred to by the president, have already been taken by the us government to prepare for the virus  which of these have the trump administration been responsible for  what is the purpose of the new team announced yesterday   answer rather poorly one could say, with respect to testing. there is now outrage that the cdc has pursued its own flawed test kit under some version of nih  which in this case stands for  not invented here  , rather than adopt the one used by the who  and which was developed in germany ...    on monday, following mounting criticism of the federal response, trump administration officials promised a rapid expansion of the country is testing capacities. with the help of private companies and academic centers, as many as a million diagnostic tests could be administered by the end of this week, said dr. stephen hahn, commissioner of the food and drug administration.    but many scientists wonder if the moves come too late.  ...  most disturbing of all: did a failure to provide adequate testing give the coronavirus time to gain a toehold in the united states      clearly, there have been problems with rolling out the test,  said dr. thomas frieden, former director of the c.d.c.  there are a lot of frustrated doctors and patients and health departments.     still, dr. frieden said he thought the situation was improving. other experts, although supportive of the agency, were mystified that federal officials could have committed so many missteps.     the incompetence has really exceeded what anyone would expect with the c.d.c.,  said dr. michael mina, an epidemiologist at harvard university.  this is not a difficult problem to solve in the world of viruses.     officials at the c.d.c. did not respond to repeated requests for comment. the agency abruptly canceled a news conference on monday just as it was to begin. officials appeared to have removed figures on the agency website counting how many americans had been tested.    in february, the c.d.c. rolled out a three-step diagnostic test and distributed testing kits -- each of which could run about 800 tests -- to state and local health laboratories. but some of the components of the diagnostic kits were flawed, and produced inconclusive results.    a three-step replacement was promised but never arrived  the agency has not fully explained why, except to say that there was a manufacturing defect. as a result, diagnostic testing was only conducted at the agency is labs in atlanta.    the c.d.c. eventually rolled out a two-step replacement and permitted a few laboratories, where the kits had been working, to continue using their tests. but those with only one working component of the test still could not diagnose patients on their own.    getting results from the c.d.c. took days, however, and in any event the criteria for testing were strict -- among them, the patient must have had recent travel to china or contact with someone known to be infected.    doctors nationwide complained of a bottleneck, both because of the restrictive test criteria and because of the agency is limited testing capacity. the agency said it had the capacity to test about 400 specimens a day.    the test criteria were  too stringent, and people are not getting tested,  said lauren m. sauer, an assistant professor of emergency medicine at johns hopkins medicine.     ...      we have been really frustrated, because one of the things that is a hallmark of public health labs is that we are usually aready, set, go,  and here we were -- aready, set, wait ,  said scott becker, chief executive of the association of public health laboratories.    late last week, the food and drug administration broke the logjam, authorizing state and local laboratories to do initial testing on their own. if labs had developed and validated a test, they could use it for diagnosis instead of relying on the c.d.c. is version or waiting for a replacement.    other nations have tested patients by tens of thousands. china has probably tested millions.     how come the south koreans can do 10,000 tests a day and we can not   said ralph baric, who studies coronaviruses and emerging diseases at university of north carolina.    soon after the virus surfaced in china, the c.d.c. got to work on its own test.  generally, c.d.c. provides these tests for the world,  said dr. frieden.    but german researchers were devising their own test, which was quickly adopted by the world health organization for distribution around the world.    after the c.d.c. is version turned out to be flawed, the agency continued to pursue it, despite the fact that another diagnostic test was already in wide use.    with f.d.a. approval, the agency could simply have distributed the test used by the w.h.o. instead of creating a new one from scratch, dr. mina said. the government could do so even now.     it is just a very american approach to say,  we are the u.s., the major u.s. public health lab, and we are going to not follow the leader,   dr. mina said.  	
i am currently studying in the international baccalaureate model. this high school model asks their students to do an individual work called the internal assessment. one of the subjects i study is chemistry, and my chemistry internal assessment is based on the production of hydrogen  a source of energy  in the water electrolysis as a way to save electrical energy. i was going to do an experiment to measure the production of hydrogen in the electrolysis of water with various concentrations of four different solutes  nacl, naoh, sulphuric acid and sodium bicarbonate, but any electrolyte will do . however, with the covid-19 outbreak, i cannot go to the laboratory, so in order to get the data i need, i searched on google databases with the information i wanted, but i found barely nothing. these links  http://www.scirp.org/pdf/nr 2013032814044640.pdf   http://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2017/se/c7se00334j  are the only useful pdfs i found, and i wonder if anyone could help me giving me some databases with the data i need.  answer alejandro, you are right, the electrolytes will make a difference. the difference is not in terms of hydrogen production per se, as maurice mentions in the comments, it will be in terms of energy saving. electrolytic reactions are  exact  in the sense that if 100 electrons reach the electrode from a battery, 100 hydrogen ions will be reduced. in other words,  1 mole of electrons will reduce exactly 1 mole of a monovalent ion, 1/2 mole of a divalent, 1/3 mole of a trivalent ion and so on.  you would probably like to have an electrolyte which has the least electrical resistance. now you may recall that the proton in water    hydrogen ion  has the least electrical resistance known today. what comes next  hydroxide ions.  all you have to search and study is the conductivity of electrolytes at various concentrations. 	
people are also asking about re-infection, whether you are immune to this once you have had it. answer well, with a lot of viruses, i mean, after you have gotten exposed to it the first time, you will have partial protection against it going forward. and there is reason to think that the same could be true with this virus. now, the cdc says there is still a lot that is not known about the immune response to covid-19. but for now, they are saying patients who have recovered from an infection are not likely to be re-infected shortly afterwards.	
the background is obvious. i am really curious about the wording. in particular, uk told that staying home this weekend is  not a request . to me, it sounds like loosening restriction, in an unofficial way. i do not follow british politics that much so forgive me if i am missing the obvious. what is the deal here   answer i am not venturing a speculation here  yet  whether that was a loosening  of the language  or not relative to prior communications on this matter, but the fuller context of that recent statement is:    mr hancock - who recently ended his seven days of self-isolation after contracting the virus - said:  we cannot relax our discipline now. if we do, people will die.     i end with the advice we all know. this advice is not a request - it is an instruction.     stay at home, protect lives and then you will be doing your part.      bbc subheading:  istay at home for nurses     ms may also appealed to the public to stay at home, saying:  this weekend is going to be very warm and it will be very tempting to go out and enjoy those summer rays.     but please, i ask to remember aimee and areema. please stay at home for them.    aimee and areema are two  young  nurses who recently died after contracting the new coronavirus.  the evening standard has chosen to headline that announcement as     matt hancock orders brits not to break coronavirus lockdown during weekend heatwave: if we relax our discipline people will die   the telegraph headlined their youtube video of that press conference with      good weather no excuse to break coronavirus social distancing rules , says matt hancock   so a reasonable-enough interpretation seems to be that it is not a relaxation of the prior government stance. i do not know if some left-wing press has tried to spin this into something else. i have searched a bit but could not find such attempts/articles, so  it is probably just you r interpretation  . 	
i heard that americans were getting checks. what is that about  answer    with the  2 trillion stimulus legislation passed by congress on march 27, federal lawmakers agreed to provide  1,200 in direct payments to millions of americans. how much you receive  depends on your income.  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-stimulus-package- questions-answers.html  single adults with social security numbers who have an adjusted gross income of  75,000 or less will get the full amount of  1,200. married couples with no children earning  150,000 or less will receive a total of  2,400. and taxpayers filing as head of household will get the full payment if they earned  112,500 or less. for every qualifying child age 16 or under, the payment will be an additional  500. if you earn above these income figures, the payment decreases until it stops completely for single people earning  99,000 or married people who have no children and earn  198,000. according to the senate finance committee, a family with two children will no longer be eligible for any payments if their income is above  218,000. in any given family and in most instances, everyone must have a valid social security number in order to be eligible.	
how is coronavirus tested  answer the covid-19 test can be ordered by a specialist coronavirus clinic, your local gp or a hospital emergency department.  the federal government has announced plans to create up to 100 coronavirus pop-up clinics across the country.  but these testing facilities vary state by state, so it is best to first be in touch with the coronavirus health information hotline on 1800 020 080 for advice.  testing methods may include a blood test, a swab test inside your nose or in the back of your throat, or a sputum test, which examines a mix of saliva and mucus.  remember, you may still need a gp referral before attending new clinics, so be sure to check first.	
is there a vaccine, drug or treatment for covid-19  answer not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care.  possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. who is coordinating efforts to develop vaccines and medicines to prevent and treat covid-19.  the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing.	
in the middle of the covid-19 lockdown, at least in france and in italy newsagents are in the list of first-necessity stores that remain open.  to go buy a newspaper  is a legitimate reason to leave one is house.  i wonder about the motivations of this decision: buying a newspaper is not essential by any definition of the term. television, radio and internet are largely sufficient to cover the need for information of the general population.  is there a reasonable political explanation for this  at first sight, it seems that the only one is the ties and the balance of power between politicians and news outlets / medias.  answer at least in italy, this appears to be in part a response to pressure from newspapers and their readers. on march 11th, the director of la repubblica newspaper carlo verdelli published  in italian  an article asking for newsagents to be included in the list of essential services, saying that  the list is missing a service that is more fundamental   now than ever before, that of information . he went on to state that  if  newsagents  were not included in the list, it would cause irreparable damage, not only for newspapers, but most importantly for the citizenry.   my translation   this is an important point, as a study undertaken by the pew research center in 2017 found that while tv and online media dominate, 31  of italians and 23  of french adults get their news from print media at least daily. this group is likely to be composed of older citizens who will be most affected if they contract the virus, and although this puts them at more risk if they leave their houses to buy a newspaper, it is of higher importance to keep at-risk groups informed.   in addition, another pew research center study found that newspapers were especially important for coverage of local news that would not otherwise be reported in alternative media - although the study was limited to the us, this is another potential factor that could have influenced the decision.  it seems that france and italy have decided that informing the populace is especially important in this time of crisis, and that this outweighs the threat public health and the potential spread of disease that the inclusion of newsagents as an essential service poses. 	
on what grounds will a tourist be sent back from south korea  especially in the midst of the coronavirus 2019-ncov  i have returned to indonesia from china at the end of december, and have not shown any symptoms ever since. i plan to travel to south korea some time this month. is there a slightest possibility of me being sent back to indonesia from the south korean airport even after having my visa approved by the korean embassy    answer timatic, the database which airlines use to verify passenger travel documents, states:      passengers who have been in the hubei province  china  people is rep.  in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter  korea  rep. .     the end of december was more than 14 days ago, so you should be fine. 	
what about a national park  can i go off into the wilderness and be alone  answer it is a tempting idea, is not it  to explore a national park and be away from other people. unfortunately, it was also a popular idea. as millions of americans were asked to stay at home, so many of them decamped to national parks that in mid-march the national park service  ordered three of the busiest  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/us/coronavirus-national-parks- closed.html  -- yellowstone, grand teton and the great smoky mountains -- to close because of congestion.	
can you still gather with friends in small groups  answer as physical distancing recommendations have evolved, it has become clear that authorities do not want anyone to get close to anyone from outside their household unless absolutely necessary.   stay home  has become the refrain from political and public health leaders seeking to flatten the curve of covid-19 infectiuons.   physical distancing is proven to be one of the most effective ways to reduce the spread of illness during an outbreak,  phac says on its website, which recommends that all canadians avoid  non-essential  gatherings.  gorfinkel said people should aim to avoid all unnecessary contact with individuals to prevent further spread in their communities.   stop the spread because so many people have mild symptoms. that is the problem,  she said.  they are the source where the majority of cases are going to come from. 	
i was told i should be tested if i could not easily inhale a large breath and hold it for at least 10 seconds. is this good advice  answer no. while shortness of breath is among the most common symptoms of the virus,according to the cdc, that diagnosis does not necessarily involve holding alarge breath for 10 seconds. medically known as dyspnea, shortness of breathis often described as  an intense tightening in the chest, air hunger,difficulty breathing, breathlessness or a feeling of suffocation,  accordingto the mayo clinic.if you think you may be sick, call your doctor and  follow cdcguidance  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.html .	
how long does the virus survive on surfaces  answer it is not certain how long the virus that causes covid-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. studies suggest that coronaviruses  including preliminary information on the covid-19 virus  may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. this may vary under different conditions  e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment .if you think a surface may be infected, clean it with simple disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others. clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. avoid touching your eyes, mouth, or nose.	
my neighbor who also bakes has run out of yeast and can not find any in the store. we went shopping this afternoon and could not find any either.  i have a fair-sized jar of the stuff in my fridge, but i am also baking a lot. i am worried about it running out, plus i would like to share with my neighbor.  is there a recommended technique for propagating it myself so i do not run out, and have enough to share   answer absolutely there is a way to propagate yeast, it is as simple as making a starter with it. most of the time these days people create starters for sourdough using natural yeasts, but you can use them to feed any kind of yeast. all you would do is put flour and water in a container with some yeast, let it get to work and once you start to get bubbles put it in the fridge to slow it down. you would then use half of it for every batch of bread you make, replacing the flour and water to keep it at the same quantity.   if you do not use any of it for a few days you would want to throw half away and refill in order to give the yeast a fresh supply of food. you can share this with as many people as you like, just split it into two, give each a fresh supply of flour and water, and repeat as many times as necessary. using this technique a small amount of yeast could theoretically supply the entire planet.   note: during the coronavirus outbreak it is worth noting that corona can survive on surfaces for quite some time, so you should take great care to ensure that your yeast propagation does not lead to virus propagation  	
given the recent shutdowns of many universities across the world, there is an increased interest in online education techniques.  in my case, i am a ta for a quantum chemistry class, and i am finding it daunting to transition to online teaching. at first, i got really excited because i thought of taking advantage of this situation to run a flipped discussion section: i would record lectures in advance, and then have virtual office hours where students could zoom/skype/google hangout with me and we discuss in the same chatroom  so everyone hears the conversation .   however, in what i suspect to be an attempt to distance themselves from something nice and free/far cheaper  like edx  which has been doing this online routine for a long time, my university has required that we livestream our lectures/discussion sections. this is purportedly to be in the aim to make their online experience as college-like as possible, but it is problematic for multiple reasons. first, lectures are at 9am est... do we expect students to tune in at 10 pm in japan  or 3 am in hawaii    second, we should use the silver linings present in this university shutdown: video lectures   students get to go back and re-listen to a part that confused them  from my perspective, this university requirement goes against an attempt to maintain normalcy: normalcy should not be defined as continuation of the same daily routine  impossible for many , but rather a continuation of helpful instruction.  i intend to find out whom to email about this, but in the meantime, what resources/advice would you suggest for an instructor who suddenly has to transition to the digital classroom   answer this is marked for community ownership so constructive edits will be welcomed. it is, however, more directed at those who can design a course, rather than a ta who has limited control.   background  many of the teaching techniques we use are not optimal for learning. they have been designed for economic efficiency since they scale. some of them have been a bit obsolete since the creation of the internet. but face to face classes in real time are no longer necessary. lecture is efficient  one teacher, many students, synchronous , but again, not optimal. testing is a poor way to guarantee competence. this current emergency can be considered to be an opportunity to rethink everything we do toward finding better ways to educate people. we are forced to act and the old ways do not work in a new environment. we should be looking for new ways.   the essentials of teaching are delivery, practice, feedback, assessment. all of these require two way communication. they do not require synchronicity or exams. the first job is to teach people, not to grade them. if you get that part backwards then you are only  teaching  people who do not need to be taught.   every student is different. nearly every student learns differently from the way their instructor does. the instructor has been proven to stand out in a particular system in which others have failed. as an instructor you have an obligation to every student willing to put in the effort, not just to the ones naturally predisposed to  win  in some system. not every student starts at the same place with the same understandings. the same words do not necessarily have the same meanings to different people.   some people have handicaps that prevent certain kinds of interactions. hearing impairment and vision impairment are obvious ones, but there are others.   learning is individual, but the process need not require isolation. it can be a communal process with learners helping each other. denying students the option of working together is sub-optimal. a course can be a communal activity, not a hierarchical one.   some students will succeed no matter the system. they do not really need you for anything more than pointing to important sources/ideas. but most actually require your assistance since insight into a topic can be hard to come by. many students actually need to be taught how to learn. if you change the system of learning they may need to be retaught how to internalize ideas and turn them into competencies. it is not automatic or obvious.   learning is not  consuming  material. it requires active participation. it requires a change in the brain  the art of changing the brain by james e zull   all of these things have long been taken into account in designing educational systems, but the current practice is a compromise that values economic  scale  values over educational ones. not everywhere, of course, but the exceptions seem few to me.   let is assume that everything is on the table, except that students and instructors can no longer meet face to face in groups. meetings of any kind need to be small and optional with alternatives provided. computer communication of some kind is needed, but costs are an issue as is the privacy of all participants.   what to do, what to do.   ideas for delivery  there are a lot of ways for students to have access to the material of a course. books are traditional. lecture has replaced most other methods. but lectures are longer than they need to be. some research i read suggests that lectures of 10 to 15 minutes are more efficient than hour or longer lectures  http://spokenimpact.com/what-is-the-ideal-length-for-a-presentation/ . those contemplating video should take note of that. video also needs to be accompanied with a transcript to aid those with impairments.   moreover, students need to be able to review material. video is difficult in this regard since it is hard to quickly return to a small part that needs review without watching longer sections, which leads to boredom. transcripts can mark the time that important ideas are introduced.   there is a fine line between having good and poor production values in video. if they are too good, a video talk becomes just entertainment with poor learning, unless other means are used to encourage/enforce engagement. if they are too bad, then students will get lost and frustrated. video professionals are good at this sort of thing, but it is hard to bootstrap immediately at scale.  delivery alone is just media. students need to incorporate what they see in a lecture, long or short, into their long term memory and into their effective competencies. more is involved than the eyes and ears. students often think that the will automatically  learn  what is presented to them in a lecture, talk, demonstration, etc. but it is anything but automatic.   caveats: any  solution  that requires real-time synchronous presence on the internet will probably fail. and it will fail invisibly for some. connections are dropped, servers overload, etc. it is hard enough to keep students off their phone when in a class. it is probably impossible to do in a real-time internet lecture. other distractions will intrude. moreover, unless you have an exceptional communication system, students will not be able to interrupt you when you make a mistake, as you will. no questions are likely to be asked in real time. it is also difficult for a presenter to give a lively talk with no audience feedback at all. especially if you are trying to do this under emergency conditions without training and experience.   but if you absolutely must use synchronous delivery you need to do two additional things. the first is that you need to record and post your lectures so that those who must miss the original do not lose access.   the second, just as vital, is that you provide a real time feedback to yourself  or to an assistant sitting by your side  so that questions can be asked as you lecture and so that students have a way to mention/note errors you make.   and make sure that students know what to do in the case that you lose the server and the ability to broadcast. avoid chaos and uncertainty as much as possible.   ideas for practice  student practice exercises and tasks may not need to change much. students, depending on the field, need to write, solve problems, and other things as appropriate. for the most part this can probably proceed largely unchanged. instructors have access to many such student exercises. if the students have a text book they probably have a bank of suitable exercises and questions.   and note that practice and reinforcement is probably the most important element in a delivered education. the  content  that a student needs is, for the most part, available to them. there are exceptions for very advanced work, but the world is knowledge is pretty much available. instructors help students choose the important things and avoid the garbage, of course, but it is up to the students themselves to learn by reinforcement  combined with feedback . whatever the topic, competence comes from repetition and reinforcement. the only thing i teach nowadays is tai chi. we have a saying that you need to repeat a movement ten thousand times to learn it. somewhere in those ten thousand tries, insight will start to develop. the same is true in things like mathematics and writing poetry.   so, remember that the things that you make the students do to learn are much more important than the things you say. good course design focuses on the student tasks, not the lectures.   i caution, however, that copyright considerations may apply if an instructor tries to utilize exercises from copyrighted material. they are, in a sense, publishing things they send to students in an online course. caution and legal advice is useful.   ideas for feedback  feedback is two way. you need feedback from the students on your presentations and assignments. students need feedback on their own work. a number or letter grade on a paper is not feedback. it gives no basis for understanding how to improve.   if the materials presented are well vetted, such as textbooks, the need for feedback to the instructor is a bit lessened. but videos, especially those prepared in the moment are likely to contain errors. shorter videos are easier to fix than longer ones. but, unlike face to face classes, the instructor is not likely to be interrupted when there is a misstatement or an omission. moreover, you need some indication that the students have actually understood what you have been saying and presenting. again, in fact to face classes you can look at expressions on their faces for some important feedback.   lets assume for the moment that you have already taught your students the importance of taking notes during presentations. at the end of a lecture you can ask individual students, perhaps volunteers, to tell you an important idea from the talk. you can do this two or three times and give them feedback on their replies. this can be transferred to online learning. if readings or video presentations are short  and, i assume asynchronous  you can ask students to send you a summary of the lesson. restrict them to one or two sentences. another possible request is to ask them to send you a possible exam question on that material. at some point, all student replies, perhaps anonymized, can be made available to everyone. by glancing through the replies you learn whether they are getting the main points and they are also getting the reinforcement they need.   giving feedback to students on their work is critical to learning. this involves answering questions that they have, but also showing them where they are making mistakes, and why, in their own work. the previous section talked about repetition and reinforcement. it is possible for students to learn and reinforce the wrong message. if you get an incorrect idea deeply ingrained in your mind it can be difficult to dislodge. all student work needs to be commented on, not just graded. publishing solutions to exercises after the fact can help, but it is not the same thing.   this idea of individual feedback is one of the most difficult things to arrange in the modern educational system, simply because of scale. my university teaching  and student life  mostly involved classes of fewer than 30 students. at that scale, i could easily give good individual feedback on weekly assignments. at 40 students i found i needed help. massive courses have a problem here that requires tools - probably better tools than are now available. i will note that harvard is cs50 course is delivered to about 800 students at a time. but the staff for the course is about 40 individuals, so the ratio is about 20:1. some of the staff are graders who comment on student work. others are tas who hold individual  recitation  sections of 20-30 students so that questions can be answered and misconceptions dispelled. i worry that moving such recitation online might not work as well at scale unless there are communication tools that let people learn from the questions of others. many students are reluctant to ask questions. the brave students willing to do so actually contribute to the education of their peers. but, answering a question for a single student, say in an office, is much less productive than answering it in public, so that all can share the response. tools are needed for this, though they can be pretty simple. university managed email lists subscribed to by students and staff are pretty effective.   but if students produce  papers  of any kind, those need to be annotated and returned. more than a numeric or letter grade is needed. something as simple as pointing a student to a place they need to review is helpful. but the goal is to foster insight. pdf files can be annotated and returned, but the process is awkward at best. and, again, there is the scale problem. it takes time to review and time to annotate. then, the student will likely have questions that need to be addressed based on the annotations. the increase in awkwardness using current tools may require more staffing to make things work effectively. even a simple email to a student takes more time than jotting a comment on a paper and then returning it at the next face session.   ideas for assessment  in my view, evaluation and assessment are the most difficult issues we face in moving to an internet model. however, they also, again in my view, have the most potential for long term improvements in student learning, provided that we take the opportunity to learn how to do a better job of it.   the first principle of assessment ought to be that any sort of evaluation have an actual educational purpose, not just a  sorting  purpose. i think that many of us are not doing a stellar job of this, having opted for easy solutions that scale, rather than solutions that aid student learning. multiple choice tests are overused and while it is possible to design good ones, it is devilishly difficult. things that rely on machine grading in general are too likely to also rely on only shallow learning and memorization, rather than deep learning and mastery. if the students can be held in a room and closely monitored this sort of thing tells you something about them, but it can likely be better. move them outside your purview and it becomes nearly impossible. and it even fails at scale.   while you can do some technological things to lock up a student is personal computer they are intrusive but also ineffective. you can enlist a vast army of tas to monitor student webcams  intrusive, again  but even there, what happens slightly off screen is invisible. without such intrusive measures students have access to helpers both human and electronic. closed-book, closed notes exams are probably a mistake in any case, but online they are difficult to impossible to monitor. there are too many inducements for students to break the rules to really assure validity. honor codes, such as those of dartmouth college do have a positive effect, but part of that effect is that the codes have been in place for half a century.   i have some personal suggestions about alternatives to examinations and, especially, high stakes examinations such as finals that account for a large fraction of a students grade. i do not claim these are the only solutions, but am more interested in sparking thoughts about how we can do a better - more learning focused - job of evaluation and assessment. i implemented these more and more as my career progressed and i learned more about students and about learning.   the first idea is to reduce the overall effect of any given exam or test. if you have forty small items you can get at least as good a picture of a student is progress as if you have only one or two large ones. moreover, high stakes testing too often leads to poor student studying habits, such as cramming for exams and cheating.   one technique i used toward the end was  cumulative grading . a course had 1000 points assigned to it and different student activities were  worth  a certain amount of points. a project might be 100 points. the result was evaluated  and commented on  and a certain number of points was awarded, perhaps 80. i also published the minimum number of points necessary for each letter grade, say 800 for a b. when a student accumulates enough points to  earn  the grade they desire they no longer need to do more. there was no risk. another feature of it was that if the student was not satisfied with the points earned they could re-do the work and possibly earn additional points. some limits were put in place, but they were generous. the philosophy behind it is  you are not in this course to prove to me that you do not need to be here.  but note that i could do this since the ratio of staff to students was good. this is hard to scale without help.   the second main technique i used and can recommend is to make almost all assessment and evaluation based on student writings and projects, not examinations. and, if the nature of the course permits, use group projects primarily. for my courses the group size was usually between two and five. these groups can meet in cyberspace or, if location and other factors permit, they can meet face to face. the projects might be large or small. they can be graded once or often. points can accumulate. it is the project that is graded, not the individuals, so everyone earns the same grade unless that is impossible. peer evaluation is used to award bonus points or to solve issues of non-participation, etc.   if there are a number of group projects students can move between groups if needed. but students also need to be taught how to run an effective group project. in the courses i taught, dividing up the work  equally  was always discouraged and if done, usually leads to poor outcomes. students need to form teams, not just amalgamations of individuals. in cs this skill will be valued later in their careers.   also, peer evaluation has to be properly managed. students do not  grade  one another. they comment on the contributions of a few or all of their team mates.  who was the most helpful team member   or three top members  why  what did they contribute  what was your own chief contribution     at a certain scale or with sufficient help you can easily determine who falls into which important grading groups. who is excellent in all respects  who shows promise  who is getting by  who is deficient  who has failed  elaborate point systems in which an 85 is somehow significantly different from an 87 have little real meaning in my opinion.   to emphasize a point above. in many fields, even very technical ones, writing is an important skill. writing essays on a given topic is good professional preparation for a budding mathematician. exams can be replaced with such essays, lessening the needs for security and such. they seem to me to be much more value long term than skill at exams. but you can probably expect that students will hate it initially.   the above, of course, are just ideas. but i found them to be more aligned with the teaching mission than the more traditional lecture and test.   ideas for communication  to handle all of the above with online courses the main need is for effective communication between faculty and students and, i found, between students themselves. one goal is that what any student sees can be seen by any other student.   communication tools need not be complex or comprehensive. but they should permit asynchronous communication and should permit many-way communication. threaded email lists are very useful and do not require extensive facilities. they can be private lists, managed by the university alleviating some privacy issues, open to only class members and staff. documents can be distributed. questions can be asked. questions can be answered at any time of the day or night - even by other students. someone needs to monitor these to make sure that misinformation is quickly corrected and that any rules about posting or not posting certain content are maintained.   if project groups are long lived, then each group can have its own mailing list and can also use other tools they find for communication.   another useful tool is a group chatroom. group chats can be held periodically, though the email lists were more useful for discussing course material. these are necessarily synchronous and so not every student might be able to  attend . but it is easy to capture the complete conversation as a text file and send it to everyone or post it on a course web site.     my own expertise in this comes from helping to design and deliver a graduate program in which students met face to face only once a month for half a day per course. all work was done in groups  of about 5 . face time was only used for things that could not be done on line. we used simple tools for communication. all student-professor communication  other than personal things  was open to all students. students could ask questions at any time and other students were encouraged to answer from their own expertise. the course was always live, every hour, every day. questions got answered quickly, if not always perfectly. students did not get stuck. the goal was to build a learning community. that community has persisted past graduation.     minor updates only anticipated.     an interesting alternative view can be found here: http://anygoodthing.com/2020/03/12/please-do-a-bad-job-of-putting-your-courses-online/. thanks to user curious for pointing this out.  	
how do the coronavirus stats compare to other bad flu seasons  answer in the u.s., influenza has caused 12,000 to 61,000 deaths annually since 2010, according to the cdc. so far this flu season in the u.s., there have been at least 38 million flu illnesses, 400,000 hospitalizations and 24,000 deaths from flu, according to the cdc.	
what can i do to protect myself and prevent the spread of disease  answer stay aware of the latest information on the covid-19 outbreak, available on the who website and through your national and local public health authority. many countries around the world have seen cases of covid-19 and several have seen outbreaks. authorities in china and some other countries have succeeded in slowing or stopping their outbreaks. however, the situation is unpredictable so check regularly for the latest news.      you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:     regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.     maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.     avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.     make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately. why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.     stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority. why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area.      calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.      keep up to date on the latest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 is spreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older person or have diabetes, heart or lung disease. why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas.	
i was looking at h.r.748 - cares  coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security  act on the congress website. i was surprised to find that the bill originally passed the house on july 17, 2019. i found this strange because the coronavirus was not known until the last few months of 2019.  i looked at the original bill from the house. it is fairly short and has nothing to do with coronavirus, but instead talks about removing a specific tax related to healthcare.  i took a looked at the senate amendment to the bill. it says,  strike all after the enacting clause and insert the following:  this is followed the very lengthy text of the cares act. it does not contain any text related to the original purpose of the bill.  why did the senate use this bill instead of creating a new one  what happened to the original  since the senate replaced it is text, can it no longer fulfill it is original purpose   answer the reason for amending this bill instead of the senate creating a new bill was to fulfil the requirements of article i, section 7, clause 1 of the constitution, also known as the origination or revenue clause, which states that all bills for raising revenue must originate within the house of representatives. note that despite the senate seemingly being able to dictate the content of the bill, the house still has to approve the amendment.  the senate has decided that it is legitimate to fulfil the letter of this clause, if arguably not the spirit, by replacing the entire text of a bill originating in the house with a bill for raising revenue. the constitutionality of this decision has been examined by rebecca m. kysar in her 2013 paper the ishell bill  game: avoidance and the origination clause. in chapter ii, subsection c2, she notes that while the supreme court has never ruled on this, several state courts and lower federal courts have condoned this interpretation.  the original bill is now one and the same as the cares act, and you are correct in saying that it can no longer fill its original purpose, as the original wording has been completely removed and replaced by the senate amendment. 	
if countries use antiretrovirals for covid-19, are there concerns about treatment shortages for people living with hiv  answer antiretrovirals are an efficacious and highly tolerable treatment for people living with hiv. the antiretroviral lpv/r is currently being investigated as a possible treatment for covid-19.if they are to be used for the treatment of covid-19, a plan should be in place to ensure there is adequate and continuous supply to cover the needs of all people living with hiv already using lpv/r and those who will need to begin treatment. however, a relatively small proportion of people are on regimens which include lpv/r, since it is used as a second-line regimen according to who is hiv treatment guidelines. any country that allows the use of hiv medicines for the treatment of covid-19 must ensure that an adequate and sustainable supply is in place.	
has anyone with preexisting conditions gotten the coronavirus and survived  answer yes, many people have. while the risk for serious disease and death fromcovid-19 is higher in people who are older or who have  certain preexistingconditions  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/health/2020/03/05/coronavirus-us-cases-symptoms-travel-deaths-prepare/4904568002/ , thousands have survived.data from the cdc published tuesday found that, as of march 28, the u.s.reported 2,692 patients who had one or more underlying health conditions. ofthose patients, 173 died. this limited data suggests that thousands of peoplewho have one or more underlying health conditions have not died.moreover, a  february who study  http://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/who-china-joint-mission-on-covid-19-final-report.pdf  ofmore than 70,000 coronavirus patients in china found that people withpreexisting conditions had higher fatality rates than those withoutpreexisting conditions: 13.2  for those with cardiovascular disease, 9.2  fordiabetes, 8.4  for hypertension, 8.0  for chronic respiratory disease, and7.6  for cancer. however, those figures suggest that large percentages ofpeople with preexisting conditions survived.	
how can someone spread coronavirus when asymptomatic  if they are not sneezing or coughing, how can they infect others  answer it is easy for asymptomatic people to spread coronavirus, said dr. anne rimoin, an epidemiology professor at ucla is school of public health.   when you speak, sometimes you will spit a little bit,  she said.  you will rub your nose. you will touch your mouth. you will rub your eyes. and then you will touch other surfaces, and then you will be spreading virus if you are infected and shedding asymptomatically. 	
i submitted my application a week ago, before the covid-19 pandemic was declared.  i am just wondering whether they can reject my application because of coronavirus, or would they still issue me a visa but advise me not to travel   i had applied for the netherlands.   answer this is a very dynamic and unprecedented situation, so nobody knows for sure what will happen. so below is more of an opinion rather than known fact.  as it currently stands, travel into the 26 eu states as well as iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, is prohibited for 30 days and as such travel is banned for all non-eu citizens or residents  except uk citizens .  assuming your travel request falls within this period then the following is likely.   they could reject you current application and tell you to reapply in the future. that this rejection will not be looked upon negatively when you apply, and you should get a full refund of any fees paid. or they could put your application on hold and ask you in the future if you wish to proceed or not with new dates. if not, then you would get a full refund. they could approve your visa, but issue it with different dates and/or an extended travel period. e.g. instead of 90 in 180 days, then 90 in 270 days.   if your travel request is for later than this period then the following could occur:   issue the visa but advise you that you will only be able to travel if the borders reopen. if the borders do not reopen in time, you have to apply again. you may or may not have to pay the fees again in such a case. stop processing and ask you if you wish to postpone or withdraw your application, and refund the fees stop processing temporarily. continue processing when the situation improves, if your application is far enough in the future reject the application, and tell you to reapply again when the situation is clearer. refund the fees.   if the visa is rejected due to the corona shutdown, then it will not be looked upon negatively when you apply again in the future and you should get a full refund. 	
in cnn is video scientist says coronavirus vaccine could be ready by 2021 after about 00:25  robin shattock, the head of mucosal infection and immunity at imperial college london  says:    we were able to access the sequence that was published by chinese scientists and made globally available, which was a tremendous thing to do. and we went from that sequence to identifying part of the sequence that encodes for the surface proteins of the virus. and we are using that sequence to manufacture our vaccine.    we are using a particular approach where we make a synthetic vaccine based on rna, so essentially it is essentially genetic code, we package that in essentially a lipid droplet, and use that to inject in a muscle  it expresses that protein, and the body recognizes that as foreign and it makes protective antibodies.   i am assuming that this is mrna and so once it reaches the cytoplasm of the vaccine recipients muscle cells it will be expressed and somehow returned to the cells  membrane where it will be recognized as foreign by passing lymphocytes.  questions:   is this basically correct as far as it goes   if so, what causes the lipid droplet to fuse with muscle  or other  cells in the first place    answer i can not give an authoritative answer on this because my phd work was based on mrna delivery using peptides instead of lipids, but many of the concepts are the same. i also do not have time to provide proper citations, but this is probably too much for a comment.  anyway, mrna is a very fragile molecule, it can be broken down extremely quickly in the blood by serum nucleases. therefore we must protect the mrna by mixing it with some other chemical, in this case a mixture of positively charged lipids. the positively charged lipids are attracted to the negatively charged phosphate backbone of the mrna, and form a nanoparticle trapping the mrna inside and hiding it from the nucleases. the lipids are often, but not always, pegylated, which means that a molecule of polyethylene glycol  peg  is attached to the lipid. the peg groups form a layer on the outer surface of the nanoparticle that helps prevent protein binding.  these mrna lipid nanoparticles are then injected into a patient. this will probably be an intramuscular injection so that the particles are most likely to be taken up by muscle cells. the exact mechanism explaining why lipid nanoparticles are attracted to cells is not entirely clear, but it is likely a combination of electrostatic attraction between the positively charged nanoparticle and the negatively charged cell membrane and proteins that bind to the nanoparticle and are then recognized by receptors on the cell surface.  after the particle is taken up by a cell it is usually trapped inside a membrane-bound structure called an endosome. as the endosome matures it is acidified, and as the ph drops from about 7 to about 5.5 the nanoparticle is disrupted. the lipids that made up the nanoparticle can merge with the lipids that make up the endosomal membrane, disrupting that membrane and breaking open the endosome, allowing the mrna to escape into the cytoplasm.  once in the cytoplasm the mrna will find a ribosome and produce protein. just like you said, the protein in this case will be membrane bound and expressed on the outer surface of the cells for eventual immune recognition. 	
are auto rickshaws allowed on the roads  answer are auto rickshaws allowed on the roads  yes, provided the drivers are willing to ferry passengers	
should i be putting my money in a mattress  answer that is not a good idea. even if you are retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. but you may want to think about having enough cash  to cover basic needs  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-advice.html  if you are retired. one financial planner recommended that retirees set aside enough cash for a year is worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.	
due to covid-19, i have decided not to return to my university in april  which was my original plan.  however, my university-approved apartment complex will not release me from my contractual obligation  they have only offered a discounted rent for the inconvenience.  as a condition of university approval, all apartment complexes are required to ensure their premises are safe. however, based on the latest word from the university is housing office, it does not appear that they will be intervening.  i am in colorado, and my apartment complex is in idaho. for the uninitiated/unaware, both are under stay-at-home orders that, at the time of this writing, are scheduled to end before april 18th, when i am  expected  to return to university.  my question is, am i still obligated to pay rent, or can i refuse on the basis of the pandemic   edit: after a review of my last contract with them, i found this section:      breach of contract by landlord: landlord may be in breach of contract for the following reasons:  a  landlord fails to maintain  property according to byu-idaho requirements as stated in the approved  housing guidebook   b  landlord materially misrepresents property on  website and/or in written information such as e-mails, flyers,  brochures, etc.  or  c  landlord suffers, permits, or maintains any  nuisance or any health or safety hazard on the premises. landlord  agrees to release student from this contract and cover moving costs.     answer yes, you are still obligated by your contract. in general, the existing states of emergency do not cancel contracts or suspend portions of contracts. in some states, eviction proceedings are on hold, and that is as far as overriding contracts goes.  	
several articles describe the unique ways covid-19 patients are being buried.  for example, in this reuters article about israel:    these included decontaminating and hermetically wrapping bodies in  double layers of polyethylene. for jewish dead, ritual washing of the  body would be conducted in one of four special stations in the  country, the document showed.   and this la times article about iran:    nor are they wrapped in traditional white cloth. they are covered in  hospital plastic, marking them as victims -- both young and old -- of  the coronavirus.   people die from viruses all the time but i have never heard of victims being buried in this way. what is unique about covid-19    answer the who guidelines for vhf victims  ebola etc.  do say that they should be buried in body bags, and if those are not available, in plastic sheeting.    if body bags are not available, wrap the body in two  thickness of cotton cloth and soak with 1:10 bleach  solution. then wrap the body in plastic sheeting. seal the  wrapping with plastic tape. spray the body bag as in  step 3. place the body in a coffin if one is available.   obviously some are treating covid-19 victims with the same amount of caution. i can not tell you at the moment if this is justified or not. 	
my 5 year old cat has a small wound on the back of it is head for a about two weeks. the wound has an approximate length of 1/4 inch  6mm  and does not seem to grow.  what worries me, is that the wound is not closing. normally these close very fast, but this does not seem to close.  he does not seem to be in pain and is not scratching the wound often. he is also feeding normally.  because of the current covid19 situation it is hard for me to visit a vet.  is there anything i can do  do i need to visit the vet     answer please be aware that i am not a vet.  to me the wound does not look bad. it is small enough to not require stitches and it does not look inflamed or infected.  my own cat got lost for a long time and came back with a severe case of ear mites, which caused him to scratch himself raw around the ears. even after treatment for the mites, it took several months     for his skin to heal completely.   such superficial wounds tend to scab, which itches and can pull on hairs. our cat often scratched parts of the scab off, which looked very much like the photo of your cat.  i think you do not even need to put a  collar of shame  on him. just keep an eye on the wound and avoid touching it, which might irritate him and cause more scratching. 	
romania has virtually the worst public health system in eu and there is no surprise that it is far from being prepared for tackling the coronavirus infection.  on major issue is that corruption  e.g. among hospital managers  has led to hospitals to not have the minimum equipment  masks, gloves  not even for a week or two.   in this context lots of medical workers got infected and quite a lot decided to quit. the government wants to tackle this issue by either withdrawing their right to practice medicine or expanding their notice period.  since romania already has a significant medical staff deficit, the second option is more likely. currently the law mentions a 20 working days period notice    1 month , but the government is considering 60 working days    3 months . based on some epidemic spreading simulations this will cover the worst period of the epidemics. this means de facto forcing the medical staff to face the infection without proper equipment.  working without proper equipment means a much higher chance of getting infected, infecting colleagues and patients.  there was a lot of debate over this issue and i am wondering if such measures are compatible with eu laws or the emergency sate can simply override some eu laws that have priority over national laws.   question: can an eu country government force its medical doctors work with sars-cov2 infected patients without the proper equipment   note: some equipment was indeed received very recently, a few weeks after the first coronavirus case was officially confirmed in romania.  answer the eu directives and regulations with respect to  workplaces, equipment, signs and personal protective equipment  can be found here. the directive that i think is most relevant is directive 89/656/eec - use of personal protective equipment.  this directive sets minimum standards for ppe used by workers, and states the obligations that employers have on this matter:    personal protective equipment must be used when the risks cannot be  avoided or sufficiently limited by technical means of collective  protection or procedures of work organization.    all personal protective equipment must:      be appropriate for the risks involved, without itself leading to any increased risk  correspond to existing conditions at the workplace  take account of ergonomic requirements and the worker is state of health  fit the wearer correctly after any necessary adjustment.      the employer must provide the appropriate equipment free of charge and  must ensure that it is in good working order and hygienic condition.   when defining what this directive covers, the following exceptions are noted:    the definition in paragraph 1 excludes:     a  ordinary working clothes and uniforms not specifically designed to  protect the safety and health of the worker      b  equipment used by emergency and rescue services      c  personal protective equipment worn or used by the military, the  police and other public order agencies      d  personal protective equipment for means of road transport      e  sports equipment      f  self-defence or deterrent equipment      g  portable devices for detecting and signalling risks and nuisances.   none of these exceptions would seem to cover medical workers except the rather non-specific  emergency and rescue services . i would take that to mean paramedics, ambulance staff, and mountain rescue workers and the like, however it is possible that this clause could be used to exempt general medical workers from this protection.  specifically in the case of romania, this directive has been implemented in national law by  hotarare privind cerintele minime de securitate si sanatate pentru utilizarea de catre lucratori a echipamentelor individuale de protectie la locul de munca , or  decision concerning the minimum safety and health requirements for the use by workers of personal protective equipment at the workplace . from my rudimentary translation of the law, this appears to be pretty much word for word a translation of the original directive.  at first glance then, it seems that failing to provide adequate ppe for hospital staff is a breach of the employer is obligations under this eu directive. however, there are a number of exceptions noted in the directive, not to mention exceptions in national law, which could be used to exclude hospital workers from the protection. in addition, a few national governments have not implemented the directive into national law yet. this makes it difficult to give a definitive answer before this is tested in the courts, as a spanish doctor is union is attempting. 	
so a series of news articles are being spread around that purportedly attributes some of bernie sanders  losses in states due to low voter turnout. a quick search on google reports tens of articles all claiming the same or similar findings:   google search   however, i recently saw an article on reddit that says this claim is being falsified by purposely misattributing one statistic as another, but i do not know how verifiable the information is considering it is not a news source i am familiar with.   bernie sanders and the myth of low youth turnout in the democratic primary   if anything, i am more wary of the quantity of news reports. earlier this month, snopes.com published a fact-checking article disproving a wide swathe of news reports that corona beer sales dropped due to fear about the coronavirus, and this is something i am not sure is also going on with the sanders/youth voter turnout issue.  in any case, did low youth turnout affect bernie sanders  results in the super tuesday primaries  or, as the 2nd linked article claims, is it not true   answer there is a lot of spin going on in all camps, including the sanders camp. this is par for the course in a political election year.  the article you cited is guilty of the same criticisms it makes of other articles. it fails to provide any concise information about how many voters in the 18-29 age range in 2020 turned out compared to 2016.  in fairness, this is partly because election officials do not track voters by age when they vote. so the only way to know anything about this kind of metric is to look at the same exit polls the article rejects as inaccurate.  the sanders campaign, like other campaigns, do their own polling and sampling. so they have pretty much the best idea of anyone as to how well they have really done. so listen to what bernie himself said:   have we been as successful as i would hope in bringing in young people in  and the answer is  no ,  he told reporters at a press briefing on wednesday.   we are making some progress but historically everybody knows that young people do not vote in the kind of numbers that older people vote,  sanders went on.  i think that will change in the general election. but to be honest with you, we have not done as well in bringing young people into the process. it is not easy.   source: http://www.businessinsider.com/bernie-sanders-admits-hes-not-inspiring-enough-young-voters-2020-3  however, that is not the only thing we can infer from available data. if you put together a spreadsheet state-by-state to tally vote totals compared to votes received by sanders, you will see a strong pattern. the data shows that sanders  overall vote count is running 20-30  lower than in 2016 in most states that have voted so far, despite the fact that across-the-board vote count is running 10-30  higher than in 2016. sanders defenders argue that this is because the field was so much bigger and stronger than in 2016, but i see this as a throwaway argument. if sanders was really a strong vote-getter, he would not be bleeding support compared to 2016 because the ones who voted for him then already knew him, whereas his opponents this year were mostly newcomers to the primaries. he already had name recognition that the others did not have among democratic voters.  so what does this broader insight tell us  well, all of the polls we have seen say that sanders  support levels are strongest among the 18-29 age range. so if he is hemorrhaging that much voter support in the overall numbers, it either means that the number of voters in the 18-29 range matched 2016 while the rest of his supporters disappeared almost completely into the woodwork, or  much more likely  his support among 18-29 year olds sagged compared to four years ago along with the other age groups.  given sanders  remarks business insider quoted, i would go with the latter likelihood. 	
they keep saying stay isolated for two weeks. but what happens after the two weeks  answer officials suggest  self-quarantining  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/11/coronavirus-pandemic-quarantine-social-distancing-covid-19-defined/5020755002/  for twoweeks if you have had exposure to somebody with the virus and might be infected.it is a way to monitor if symptoms develop and, at the same time, avoid anypossible spread to others. since the incubation period for the virus is up to14 days, you are  cleared  for the virus after two weeks, elliott said.after that, you still  need to practice socialdistancing  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/2020/03/16/social-distancing-coronavirus-isolation-quarantine-pandemic-virus-infection-symptoms/5019940002/ . is it safe to go grocery shopping  helpful tips during the coronaviruspandemic   /in-depth/news/2020/04/03/safe-go-grocery-store-shopping-tips-amid-coronavirus/5103977002/   coronavirus might spread much farther than 6 feet inthe air. cdc says wear a mask in public.   /in-depth/news/2020/04/03/coronavirus-protection-how-masks-might-stop-spread-through-coughs/5086553002/   fact check: did the obama administration depletethe federal stockpile of n95 masks   /story/news/factcheck/2020/04/03/fact-check-did-obama-administration-deplete-n-95-mask-stockpile/5114319002/ 	
do patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov need to be hospitalized if they have mild illness  answer no. for patients who have mild illness, e.g., low-grade fever, cough, malaise, rhinorrhoea, sore throat without any warning signs, such as shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing, increased respiratory  i.e. sputum or haemoptysis , gastro-intestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea and without changes in mental status, hospitalization may not be required unless there is concern for rapid clinical deterioration. all patients discharged home should be instructed to return to hospital if they develop any worsening of illness. for more information on admission criteria, please click here.for more information on caring for mildly symptomatic 2019-ncov patients at home, please click here.	
how long does it take to recover  answer  it takes anything up to six weeks to recover from this disease,  said dr. michael ryan of the world health organization.    people who suffer very severe illness can take months to recover from the illness.   recovery is often marked by a patient no longer showing symptoms and having two consecutive negative tests at least one day apart, ryan said. but there is no known cure for the novel coronavirus.	
when will this end  answer this is a difficult question, because a lot depends on    http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/20/us/coronavirus-model-us- outbreak.html  how well the virus is contained  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/20/us/coronavirus- model-us-outbreak.html . in places including china, singapore, south korea and taiwan, fierce efforts to contain the virus appear to have    http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/19/world/coronavirus-flatten- the-curve-countries.html  reduced the number of new cases  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/19/world/coronavirus- flatten-the-curve-countries.html . in the united states, forecasts differ depending on where you live. new york city, seattle, boston and parts of california already have such large outbreaks that they will probably see significant growth even after taking extraordinary preventive measures, according to columbia university researchers who used a new york times  database  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us- cases.html  and census bureau data to model outcomes. some experts have    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus- shut-down.html  guessed, optimistically,  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus-shut- down.html  that the virus could abate in about two months, although that does not mean that public life would go back to normal. the more we take early precautions to protect our communities, like practicing social distancing, the better the results will be. if measures to slow the disease are not effective, the virus could sicken millions of people, losing steam on the coasts in may before spreading to the rest of the country over the summer. clinical    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/us/politics/coronavirus- vaccine-competition.html  trials for vaccines are underway  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/us/politics/coronavirus-vaccine- competition.html  in the united states, china and europe. but american officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away.	
i deposited a large cashiers check payable to myself into my account this morning. i tried to buy eyeglasses but i only had  100.00 available in my account. i called the bank and the mgr clms there is a 24 hour hold, yet the rep failed to disclose that at the time of deposit. i told her i need a minimum of  1000.00 available for this whole corona virus emergency, she flat out refused so i said ok i will be by later to close out all my accounts if that is the case.  3 hrs later she calls to ask me where i am as she is been waiting for me and that she took the liberty of canceling my deposit and withdrawing my funds out of my account. is this even legal, who gave her authority to access my account  what legal recourse do i have  i have disabilities can i go to the ada   answer so, in short, the bank did what you asked them to do  close your account .   what do you think they did that might be unlawful  	
should you avoid advil and other anti-inflammatories  answer france is health minister set off a wave of confusion when he warned that the use of ibuprofen could become an  aggravating factor  for infection in covid-19 cases  however, the world health organization says there are no reports to support this claim.  in an official response, the who said it is not recommending against the use of the common painkiller.   we are also consulting with physicians treating covid-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative effects of ibuprofen, beyond the usual known side-effects that limit its use in certain populations,  the who said in an update on march 18.  bogoch agreed with the who, saying there is still not enough data on the subject.   the short answer is we are not entirely sure if this is going to do anything or not. it is unlikely to have any effect whatsoever,  he told ctv is your morning on march 19.  for individuals who suspect they may have covid-19 and are suffering from a low-grade fever or another type of pain, bogoch said they can take ibuprofen or other over-the-counter medications, such as acetaminophen.	
how can we limit the spread of the coronavirus  answer there are lots of things that everyone can do to help limit the spread of the coronavirus. nhs advice says: regularly wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds when you cough or sneeze, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve  not your hands   try to avoid close contact with people who are unwell as dr xand explained, people should stay at home if they are feeling poorly, especially if they have a temperature, a cough, or are feeling achy. the who says keeping at least two metres apart from someone who might be coughing or sneezing will help stop the coronavirus spreading. prime minister boris johnson said people should stay at home to help stop the spread of the virus. he has closed all sorts of places where people gather, such as shops, libraries, cinemas and places of worship, to persuade them to do this.	
as of time of writing it is quite common to see headlines about so-and-so who have tested positive for covid-19, e.g. canadian pm justin trudeau is wife, sophie, tests positive for coronavirus, officials say  however, these articles do not usually say how reliable the testing is. i could not find any recent information on it via google, either  there are some results, e.g. this, but they are old .  how accurate are the tests  what are the odds that sophie trudeau is results are a false positive, or that justin trudeau is negative result is a false negative   answer short answer: sophie trudeau is positive test may still mean 3 : 1 odds of not having contracted covid-19, but the odds could also be far more towards having covid-19. justin trudeau is negative test almost certainly means he was negative when tested. of course, should sophie be positive, that may have changed by now.    update: i found a web page of the fda listing tests that have this emergency use approval. each of them has manufacturer instuctions that list their test results towards the end. some of the submitted test results use    100 negative samples in the clinical evaluation. but there is also one that has only 13 positive cases  all of which were correctly found  in their test - but that one got the emergency approval already early in february. the latest 2  by thermo and roche  used 60/60 and 50/100 cases for their clinical evaluation  all results correct . that gets the lower end of the confidence intervals for sensitivity and specificity to 94 - 97    with the lower end of the c.i. we would thus have lr       20 or 17, expected values would be 61 or 51, respectively. for lr-  lt     1/20 or 1/32  expected 1/61 or 1/100 .     long version: let is do some number juggling and see whether we can extract something useful. the following calculations are based on a somewhat worst-case scenario: the fda emergency validation guidelines specify outcomes that such a new test in the current emergency situation must meet, and i calculate from the low end of performance that could be expected meet these criteria under somewhat unlucky circumstances.  so we know minimum performance requirements, but i do not know  yet  how good    how much better than minimum performance  the tests are.  sensitivity and specificity  the starting point would be sensitivity and specificity of the respective test. i have not found any published data on these, but the fda has a policy for diagnostics testing for coronavirus disease-2019 that says how labs that develop a test should do an  emergency validation . they can then get emergency use approval.    sensitivity tells us: of all truly covid-19-positive specimen, which percentage is correctly recognized as positive by the test  i am going to use 87.5    see below  specificity tells us: of all specimen that are truly negative for covid-19, which percentage is correctly recognized by the test.   sensitivity and specificity can be measured by standardized protocols, and they characterize the performance of the test.   from a patient is or doctor is point of view, however, they are not very useful numbers as they  we  need the answer to the inverse questions:  predictive values   positive predictive value ppv: given that the test yielded positive, what is the probability that the patient truly has the virus  negative predictive value npv: given that the test yielded negative, what is the probability that the patient truly does not have the virus    predictive values can be calculated from sensitivity and specificity together with the prevalence  or, as we are talking about newly infected patients, the incidence  of virus among the tested population. here is how they go for the assumed sensitivity and specificity:   red for positive test outcomes, dark green for negative test outcomes. posterior probability   after the test said something, what is the probability that the test result is correct   npv for negative test result, ppv for positive test result.  good estimates of prevalence are often difficult to obtain, because we need the prevalence among those who are tested and that is  and should be  quite different from the prevalence of the disease in the general population.   for some countries such as italy, we have numbers of performed tests  wiki page giving numbers for more countries : as of today  march 14th , they ran 109170 tests and have a total of 21157 cases. not all tests are for initial diagnosis  afaik, a patient is considered cured only after a bunch of tests are negative , but as most cases are still  fresh , we may the ratio positive cases : tests run as one surrogate for the prevalence in the tested population. this would be around 20   for italy.   from the diagram we can then read for a new patient being tested the first time:   if the test outcome is positive, chances are     75    or greater as i am calcluating with the lower end of the possible range from the emergency validation  that the patient really has covid-19. so, up to 25   false positives.  if the test outcome is negative, chances are     95    or greater...  that the patient really does not have covid-19. so, up to 5   false negatives.    canada currently reports 25 positive out of a total of 796 tests, so about 3   prevalence in the tested population.  for the usa, the cdc reports case numbers and test numbers, currently 1629 cases with  3995   15749  tests - but it is not entirely clear to me whether the populations completely coincide. anyways, i will use 8   as guesstimate for prevalence.    prevalence   ppv   npv   country/population     ------------ ------ -------- --------------------    3     26     99.6     canada     8-9         50     98.8     usa, germany     20     75     95     italy      now that is the population of  everyone who is tested . at least for germany  march 14th  but probably also for canada and the us, tests are done on people who show symptoms and on people that are known to have had contact with corona virus cases: if they are found to be positive, they are sent home to quarantine and wait whether they did acutally catch the disease. but we may still say that the  people who are tested  population has subpopulations with and without symptoms. so if there are further point of suspicion, say, the patient does cough, we would say they belong to a high risk subpopulation with higher prevalence of covid-19 compared to the overall prevalence among tested, so the chance of a false positive would be lower for them.   this will change as tests are performed only on people who show symptoms  by now, march 16th, everyone is already told to stay at home in germany and self-isolate as well as possible - the test result will not change this in any way .   handy for quick calculation: likelihood ratio positive  lr   and negative  lr-   if we express the prevalence as odds  1 : 99 instead of 1   , lr  and lr- allow easy back-of-the envelope calculations.   lr    sensitivity /  1 - specificity      11 or better for our test and  lr-    1 - sensitivity  / specificity     0.05   1/20 or better for our test.  so they are indpendent of the prevalence and they tell us how the odds change due to the test: the posterior probability  predictive values  are the the pre-test odds multiplied with the likelihood ratio. in that sense, they tell us how much information we gain due to test  for positive and negative outcomes .  so, canada reported odds of 25 positive : 771 negative tests. so for sophie trudeau, the odds went from 25 : 771  or 3    to 25 : 771   11   273 : 771     1 : 3 or 25  . for justin trudeau 25 : 771 / 20   25 : 15420     1 : 617 or 0.16   of being covid-19 positive  slight discrepancy to above due to rounding .  on the other hand, if we start testing more and more people for whom the risk of actcually having contracted the virus is lower and lower, we soon will not be able to draw meaningful conclusions from the test results any more: i am in germany, currently the federal info page lists 3800 confirmed cases. even if we assume that there is a huge dark figure and in reality 20 x as many people are infected  that would be a prevalence in the general population of 0.1  , the odds are 1 infected : 1.5 mio non-infected. if someone who does not belong to any particular risk group were tested positive, their odds would increase by factor 11, i.e. roughly 1 : 140000. a negative test result would decrease the odds by a factor of 1/20 to 1 : 31 mio. however, both results are of no practical use as they do not change the situation: pre-test situation is  very unlikely to be covid-19 case , post-test situation is still  very unlikely to be covid-19 case .  this is why, even if there were testing capacities for the whole population, tests do not make sense unless we know there are some risk factors such as some kind of respiratory disease or contact to someone who is known to have the virus. and why it is sensible to say that on slightly suspicious circumstances    low, but not extremely low prevalence , one should self-quarantine/avoid contact but there is no point in testing  yet .    detais on how i estimate sensitivity and specificity   the lab first determines the limit of detection  lod  for virus rna. the lod here is the lowest concentration at which 19 out of 20 replicate tests are positive  that would be 95   sensitivity, but for samples spiked in the lab, but with a relevant and as difficult as possible matrix such as sputum .  next,  leftover  clinical samples are used:    as there may not be any positive samples available, the lab can spike negative samples with virus rna  a minimum of 20 samples are spiked within a range of 1 - 2 lod plus 10 samples to cover the remaining clinical range. of these, at most 1 is allowed to have negative outcome  and that must be one in the lower concentration range . thus, 29 positive out of 30 true positive.  also 30 non-reactive specimens are tested. the policy does not say a number of false positives that is permissible, so i am going to assume that must be zero.   the lab can then start with real patient samples. the first 5 positive and the first 5 negative cases must be confirmed by an approved test  and must all match .    pooling the 2  rounds  of testing clinical samples, we have:   34  or 35  positive tests out of 35 truly positive specimen -  sensitivity at least 97   with 95  credible interval 87.5 - 100  , specficity 100   with 95  credible interval 92 - 100   there are additional checks required but they do not help us here. sampling errors are not included in this validation. i am not a clinical chemist, but i am analytical chemist and in general analytical chemistry, that can easily be the dominating source of error. in that case, the above numbers would be useless. particularly the sensitivity may drop over time as the virus mutates.  to deal with this, in some cases multiple tests are done  read that in some newspaper article which i do not find at the moment . when doing multiple tests, tests by different providers are used if possible: as they are developed from different virus samples, this gives a better coverage for mutations in the virus than doing the same test in replicate.       very handwavy scenario i derived from the development of case numbers in china after their quarantine/shutdown on jan 26, assuming an incubation period of 2 weeks and that noone got infected after quarantine started. 	
i played around with google trends and corona because i was interested when people started to search for it.   http://trends.google.de/trends/explore date 2019-11-20 202020-01-09 amp geo cn amp q coronavirus, 2fm 2f01cpyy, 2fm 2f01f01y, 2fm 2f02y 4q2, 2fm 2f0g9pc  i tried to control for the beer and general virus.     it looks like peopled googles very early for the virus or am i missing something   sample-size, other variables    answer coronaviruses are a group of viruses. according to the wiki, coronaviruses were discovered in the 1960s. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/coronavirus  so people could have searched for  coronavirus  long before the current outbreak. case in point, google trends for year 2018:    and here for reference google ngram, indeed showing the term first appeared in the 1960s:   	
can i have the flu and coronavirus at the same time  answer yes. testing positive for either the flu or coronavirus does not exempt you from having the other at the same time.   the flu and coronavirus share some common symptoms, such as fever and cough.  but many coronavirus patients suffer from shortness of breath, and some people with coronavirus lose their senses of taste or smell. but it is important to note many people with coronavirus -- possibly up to 50  -- have no symptoms at all.  learn more about the differences between flu, coronavirus and allergy symptoms here.	
if, as a us citizen or resident, i had flu-like symptoms and if i was not covered by medicaid/medicare and did not have health insurance, who would be liable for paying for covid-19 test diagnostics in a us hospital   i saw an offhand remark about  the cost and people not getting tested as a result , in an online forum. it was not even a claim that it was happening, more like a quip that it might happen.  the us healthcare vs euro/canadian-style coverage debate has been done to death, but it usually revolves around the problems lack of coverage brings to the people who are ill. this is not what i am asking about.  an epidemic situation however brings a different dynamic: there is a vested interested for everyone else that sick people are identified as such and isolated, it is not just about the being well-being of the patients. to assist in containment, you want to remove as many barriers to early diagnosis as possible.  is there/could there be some form of emergency funding for at least the tests themselves, at the federal level  one model is for example, the financial arrangements around vaccination programs.  edit:  the question concerns the procedure for the entire test, i.e. lab services as well as clinic time: seeing a doctor/nurse, taking the tests and getting the results. nothing more, but also all of what is necessary for a yes/no answer wrt having covid-19 or not.   bryan is answer is great wrt to the kit and lab services themselves, but someone still needs to interview you and take whatever samples are necessary to send off for testing,  do these arrangements vary by state  or does the federal govt, through the cdc, have jurisdiction   state vs federal: it seems to me that a federal-level guidance ought to be faster than waiting for all 50 states to come up with their own programs individually.  answer the cdc covers the cost of testing itself, however, this may not be the only type of cost incurred.    a recent new york times article presents a case study of exactly the sort of scenario described in the question.  americans who were living in china and evacuated from wuhan did not have health insurance in the us and were given a  3,918 bill for care during quarantine, including  2,598 for ambulance transportation. neither ultimately tested positive.    he did receive a document upon leaving quarantine directing him to contact a government email address with any medical bills. he sent an email on feb. 24 detailing the charges and asking what would be done.     my question is why are we being charged for these stays, if they were mandatory and we had no choice in the matter   mr. wucinski wrote in his message.    he has not received a response, he said.   since then, after being contacted by the times, the hospital stated the bill was in error:    when contacted by the new york times, a rady children is hospital spokesman said the physicians  bill had been sent in error and that the family would not be held responsible for the charges.   ..but it is not clear whether this is a matter of policy or a public relations move by the hospital, nor is it clear how these matters will be handled going forward. it also does not yet resolve the  2600 ambulance bill  of course this is all still pending .  the government can order mandatory quarantines, but as far as who pays:     there is no uniform practice,  said lawrence gostin, a professor of global health law at georgetown university.  they do have the powers, but they have almost never used them in modern times.    without some new government intervention, it seems that for now costs will either be charged to patients or simply absorbed by the treating facilities  by not billing .    the american hospital association and american nurses association on feb 27, 2020 have asked for the government to fund care related to the epidemic. it seems likely that there will be further political fights over what exactly is done next.    update: as of march 4th, 2020, an agreement was reached in the house on a bill for covid-2019 funding, which is expected to pass there and later in the senate. this bill does not address how to deal with care and testing for the uninsured, though it includes state and local funding. it is unclear at this time how those funds could/will be used:    congress did not explicitly address how to handle funding for mandatory quarantines or the uninsured. the package would send  950 million in state and local grants, with half of the money due within 30 days. states will receive a minimum of  4 million.   http://www.politico.com/news/2020/03/04/coronavirus-funding-package-121209 	
how long is the incubation period for covid-19  answer the  incubation period  means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease. most estimates of the incubation period for covid-19 range from 1-14 days, most commonly around five days. these estimates will be updated as more data become available.	
can people get checks even if they have not filed a tax return in recent years  answer in cases where people have not filed tax returns but receive social security benefits or railroad retirement benefits, the irs can look at statements about those benefits to help get the checks to those people.  for people who have not filed a 2018 or 2019 tax return and do not receive social security or railroad retirement benefits, there is an incentive to promptly file a tax return to ensure that the irs can reach them to distribute the money to them this year.   people who do not file tax returns are typically low-income. for example, the irs requires married couples with both spouses under 65 to file returns for 2019 if their gross income was at least  24,400. that threshold is raised to  27,000 in cases where both spouses were 65 or older. social security benefits often are not included in gross income.	
how long can the virus live on a doorknob  on cash  on my keyboard  answer the coronavirus can live up to 72 hours on some surfaces, like plastic and steel, according  to a recent study.  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/health/coronavirus-surfaces- aerosols.html  it can survive on cardboard for up to 24 hours. the good news is that coronaviruses are easy to destroy. a disinfectant on a surface  will render it harmless  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/health/coronavirus-how-it- spreads.html , according to gary whittaker, a professor of virology at the cornell university college of veterinary medicine. although the w.h.o. has not said that cash transmits the virus, the organization said in a statement that  it is good hygiene practice to wash your hands after handling money, especially if eating or handling food.  are you sensing a theme  wash your hands after touching almost anything, especially if it is a surface outside your home.	
common advice given is that if you decide to become an active or passive investor, you should stick with the choice you have made. that you are less likely to be successful if you try to pursue both active and passive investing strategies.  but why is it a bad idea to combine both strategies  for example, passively invest in index funds, but when an opportunity arises where it seems that you will make a lot of money by actively trading, go with that strategy instead  for example with recent events, people are betting heavily against the s amp p500, as we are still in the beginning stages of the coronavirus pandemic as of this writing.  answer  common advice given is that if you decide to become an active or passive investor, you should stick with the choice you have made.   no you should not. it is perfectly fine to supplement an active portfolio by passive index funds, or to supplement an index fund portfolio with several carefully chosen stocks.  what is bad advice is to buy lots of various active funds  leading to index returns, because there are so many of the active funds, without low costs of index investing . if you believe in active investing, you should select only a fund or at most two in the same market, having fund managers you can trust.  what is also bad advice is to buy quasi-active funds, funds that claim to be active but do not really take any active risk because the fund manager fears losing to the index return. in this case, too, you pay for active management but get passive returns.  let me propose a case where you could supplement an index portfolio with some actively chosen stocks. if you, for example, like traveling a lot more than most people. unfortunately, traveling uses oil, so it might be a good idea to buy stocks of oil companies. traveling also requires aeroplanes, so it might be a good idea to buy aeroplane manufacturer stocks. you of course travel with an airline, so it might be a good idea to buy airliner stocks.  or, if you drive a lot with an electric car. in this case, it might be a good idea to supplement your index portfolio with stocks of tesla and electric utility companies, especially those that produce electricity with fixed cost structure like hydropower or nuclear power.  let me also propose a case where you could supplement an active portfolio with some index funds: you run out of ideas. simply said. you have so much money to invest but you can not find any companies where you would like to increase your ownership. in this case, it is perfectly fine to buy index funds. or, you could hire a monkey to throw darts into a list of stocks to select new investments for you. but it is much simpler to buy index funds than to hire a dart-throwing monkey. 	
are specialized or referral hospitals required for patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection when hospitalization is needed  answer no. current who recommendations do not include a requirement for exclusive use of specialized or referral hospitals to treat suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov acute respiratory disease patients. however, countries or local jurisdictions may choose to care for patients at such hospitals if those are deemed the most likely to be able to safely care for patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection or for other clinical reasons  e.g., availability of advanced life support . regardless, any healthcare facility treating patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov patients should adhere to the who infection prevention and control recommendations for healthcare to protect patients, staff and visitors. click here for the guidance.	
presuming that we were able to find a person who was never exposed to any of the human seasonal coronaviruses  part of the viruses that cause the common cold , would the virus be just as deadly for that person as the sars-cov-2 currently circulating around the world  or is sars-cov-2 uniquely dangerous   answer the seasonal coronaviruses attach exclusively to cells with a ciliated epithelium.     coronaviruses invade the respiratory tract via the nose. after an incubation period of about 3 days, they cause the symptoms of a common cold, including nasal obstruction, sneezing, runny nose, and occasionally cough  figs. 60-1 and 60-2 . the disease resolves in a few days, during which virus is shed in nasal secretions. there is some evidence that the respiratory coronaviruses can cause disease of the lower airways but it is unlikely that this is due to direct invasion. other manifestations of disease such as multiple sclerosis have been attributed to these viruses but the evidence is not clear-cut.    studies in both organ cultures and human volunteers show that coronaviruses are extremely fastidious and grow only in differentiated respiratory epithelial cells. infected cells become vacuolated, show damaged cilia, and may form syncytia. cell damage triggers the production of inflammatory mediators, which increase nasal secretion and cause local inflammation and swelling. these responses in turn stimulate sneezing, obstruct the airway, and raise the temperature of the mucosa.   so, the mechanism of infection is such that they only attack the upper airways.  the sars-cov-2 is totally different. it attaches to the ace2 surface receptor which is found deep in aleolar pneumocytes. their damage causes loss of surfactant in the alveloi, the collapse of these air cells that perform oxygen exchange and subsequently ards.  so, seasonal coronaviruses give you a runny nose but do not kill. sars-cov-2 collapses your air cells so you do not have any oxygen.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk7782/ 	
due to the coronavirus klm canceled all flights from china about a week ago. naturally we are entitled to a full refund. according to european union air passenger rights, passengers are also entitled to up to eur600 of compensation in the case of a canceled flight. however, we requested a cancellation of our tickets five days before they announced the cancellation of our flight but after it became public that china closed down wuhan with the risk of other cities. so we wanted to leave as early as we could. klm had given notice that they offer rebookings and cancellations at that time.   are we therefore also entitled to a 600eur refund or would we have had to first give klm the chance to offer us an earlier flight before booking a flight with another airline and canceling theirs  or should we have waited 5 days until they cancelled the flight to be entitled to receive both the refund   compensation   so in short, what does the compensation depend on  also, does the corona virus qualify for the airline to waive the compensation penalty because it is an  extraordinary circumstance  in the legal sense   edit: the cancellation  amp  approval of the refund claim of my ticket came into effect yesterday, 5 days after the flight would have taken place. we received no confirmation of cancellation neither for our specific request nor any warning of the airline itself that the flight was cancelled in general. this suggests that they a cancelled our tickets and therefore b did not consider us a passenger anymore at the time of cancellation. still, it is odd that they never gave us confirmation of the ticket cancellation. just a  pending approval for refund request  state.   answer the airline did not cancel your flight. they cancelled a flight that you were not booked on at the time of the cancellation. it is as simple as this. you were not booked on the flight, so you are due no compensation.  if you had not already canceled your tickets, and you were still booked on the flight at the time of the cancellation, then you might have been due compensation under eu261, but it is very likely that the airline would consider an epidemic to be  extraordinary circumstances  which removes the need for the airline to provide compensation.  addition to address the update to the question : simplistically speaking, airline bookings have two parts - a  reservation  which covers the booking on specific flight segments on specific days, and a  ticket  which basically shows that you have paid for those flights. when you book a flight, first a reservation is created, then you pay, and then a ticket is issued.  when you cancel flights, the reservation of those flights is cancelled. at that point, you are no longer booked on those flights, although you still potentially hold a ticket. this will happen immediately that you ask for the flights to be cancelled, as the airline wants to be able to free up the seats so they can sell them to someone else. no refund will be made as a part of cancelling a reservation.  at this point, you hold a ticket that states you have paid  x for, but which contains no flight segments as they have been cancelled. depending on the airline, the actual ticket you purchased, and any special conditions the airline might allow  such as allowing refunds during an event like an epidemic even if the ticket does not normally allow refunds , the value on that ticket might be lost entirely, might be only able to be used to book a future flight, or might allow a refund.  in order to actually get the refund, whoever issued the ticket  which might be the airline you were flying, another airline, or a travel agency  will need to cancel it and process the refund back to you. this is a separate step in the process, and it could happen hours, days, or even months after the reservation was cancelled.  however none of that changes the fact that once the reservation has been updated, you were no longer booked on that flight, and thus no longer due compensation. 	
i am from bangladesh. i recently applied for a non-immigrant type visa for entering thailand for wordcamp asia 2020 event. however, the event was cancelled recently for coronavirus outbreak.  since my air ticket is non-refundable and hotel refund cost etc are too much, i thought why not to go there still and spend a week over there.  however, i am confused for the immigration procedure since i have got a non-immigrant visa under ed category, so i may not be allowed to travel after the event was cancelled.  so, do any one of you have similar experience and suggest me anything on this   answer you may travel on non-ed visa already issued.  if the  non-ed  visa itself is already issued in the passport, you will enter as normal and get 89 days   day of arrival permission to stay. make sure to have 20k thb equivalent in cash or traveler is cheques just in case immigration asks for proof of ability to support oneself.   enjoy your holiday.   related: will you be able to extend your permission to stay at a local immigration office   unlikely as you wouldnt have a school/event/etc. to give you a reason to extend.  	
i just got back from the netherlands and read a notice on the cdc web site that says i  must  self quarantine for 14 days.  i guess i do not understand. i think the netherlands has 2 cases and my home state of new hampshire has 6. so, the logic is what  i am potentially infected and the rest of new hampshire is not. i mean if new hampshire has more cases than the netherlands, does not that mean every one of the 1.4 million people in new hampshire should  self quarantine    what is the logic here     answer at this time  17-march-2020  the state of new hampshire has not found evidence of community transmission of the virus, and all 13 cases are associated with overseas travel.  you have travelled in from overseas where there is community transmission so the possibility is much higher that you have been infected. the infected in the pre-symptomatic phase are still highly contagious spreading virus just by breathing based on small studies so far.  once community transmission is detected then it may be too late to start isolating people from out of state, and the whole state may need to go into self isolation as was done in china.  http://patch.com/new-hampshire/concord-nh/nh-officials-order-all-schools-be-shuttered-due-covid-19 	
how much physical activity is recommended  answer who has detailed recommendations on the amount of physical activity people of all ages should do to benefit their health and wellbeing.  available here for children under age of 5 and here for youth, adults and olders  here are the minimum levels we recommend:infants under the age of 1 year need to be physically active several times a day.children under 5 years of age should spend at least 180 minutes a day in physical activities, with 3-4 year-olds being moderately or vigorously active for an hour a day.children and adolescents aged 5-17yearsall children and adolescents should do at least 60 minutes a day of moderate to vigorous-intensity physical activity, including activities that strengthen muscle and bone, at least 3 days per week.adults aged over 18 years should do a total of at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity throughout the week, or at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity physical activity throughout the week, including muscle-strengthening activities 2 or more days perweek.older adults with poor mobility should do physical activity to enhance balance and prevent falls on 3 or more days per week. but any physical activity is better than none. start with small amounts and gradually increase duration, frequency and intensity over time. being active during the covid-19 pandemic is challenging for us all. because the opportunities to be physically active seem to be more restricted, it is even more important to plan in every day the ways to be active and to reduce the time spentsitting for long periods. put simply, it is a critical time to ensure we all move more and sit less.	
oseltamivir  tamiflu  is an antiviral medication used to treat and prevent influenza a and influenza b  flu . it is said  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27660842  to reduce symptom duration even when initiated more than 2 days after symptom onset. oseltamivir inhibits influenza virus replication and transmission following ocular-only aerosol inoculation of ferrets. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5729277/.  can the replication and transmission of the sars-cov-2  2019-ncov  virus in humans be inhibited in a similar way by the use of oseltamivir   answer this drug is not one of the candidates for the who mega study  solidarity  nor do i see it in any other prospective trial. without trial data your question can not be answered.    who and partners are organizing a study to compare untested treatments throughout several countries.    this large, international study is designed to generate the robust data we need to show which treatments are the most effective , said the who chief.  we have called this study the solidarity trial .  and to date, argentina, bahrain, canada, france, iran, norway, south africa, spain, switzerland and thailand have confirmed that their participation.   to suppress and control epidemics, countries must isolate, test, treat and trace , he said, otherwise  transmission chains can continue at a low level, then resurge once physical distancing measures are lifted .   the trial is simple with two endpoints - death or discharge from hospital, and uses 4 drug protocols.  http://news.un.org/en/story/2020/03/1059722  you can read about the trial design and rationale, and the drugs being tested here 	
what is this eight-week formula everyone keeps talking about  answer this is the formula to figure out if your loan forgiveness under ppp will be reduced. i like the us. chamber of commerce illustration for figuring this out. you take your payroll costs and multiply them by a fraction. the top half of the fraction has the average number of full-time equivalent employees  fte  per month for the eight weeks beginning on loan origination. the bottom half has either the average number of ftes per month from february 15, 2019 to june 30, 2019 or the average number of ftes per month from january 1, 2020 to february 29, 2020. seasonal employers use february 15, 2019 to june 30, 2019.	
one hypothesis for which we have some supporting evidence is that the new virus  sars-cov-2   enters human cells through an interaction with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2  see here. although it is still unclear what genes to target in order to prevent the infection  entry or reproduction .   is there empirical evidence suggesting what genes can be modulated to fight the infection   answer this is an interesting question. a recent study published on biorxiv by researchers from xi an, china  pre-print  argues that cd147 can also be an entry receptor for the virus. they showed virus entry can be blocked by an antibody to human cd147. 	
i have always used acyclovir to treat cold sores, why does not it work on other viruses    how do coronaviruses differ from herpesviruses   answer aciclovir specifically targets hsv-family viruses.  it is metabolized by a viral-specific enzyme into an inhibitor of the specific dna polymerase expressed by the virus:    in infected cells, hsv or vzv coded thymidine kinase facilitates  the conversion of aciclovir to aciclovir monophosphate, which is then converted to aciclovir triphosphate by cellular enzymes. aciclovir triphosphate acts as an inhibitor of and substrate for the herpes specified dna polymerase, preventing further viral dna synthesis.    http://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/pdf openagent amp id cp-2009-pi-00595-3  other viruses do not express these specific enzymes, and even if they have similar enzymes they may not interact the same way with the drug. even within the herpesvirus family, the drug is not equally effective against every virus.  coronaviruses are rna viruses, so even though the drug is not effective for dna viruses outside the herpesvirus family, coronaviruses are definitely not going to be affected because they do not even have a dna polymerase to inhibit. 	
background: i hold citizenship of a country included in the exchange visitor skill list for j1 visa holders  my research area, biological sciences, is on the list as well . my postdoc project is funded by nih/nsf grants to the lab  not in a university . i completed a ph.d. in a major us university last year, and my work authorization is under the f1 opt. in light of diminishing faculty openings, i do not have a strong preference for staying in academia long term.  details: i started my current  and first  postdoc position a few months back, and this position is funded for the next few years. my advisor has been great, and she is supportive. i am also satisfied with the progress being made in the project.   due to the increased visa denials, i was advised to wait for the next visa and not leave the us during the opt period. the hr informed me that j1 is the only option as per the organization policy, and my advisor is powerless even if she wants to help. i did not know that non-university entities could sponsor j1 and thought h1b was the only choice  a significant reason for choosing this position  my bad.    if i take j1, i will be subject to the two year home residency rule  which is the worst  the economy in my home country  a banana republic  is in shambles . being on opt would make it extremely risky to leave the us, and the status of the opt stem extension is uncertain. these factors make me want to look for new opportunities with h1b sponsorship. however, the fact that my advisor has been supportive and having to leave after a few months without any publication makes me feel incredibly guilty. i would appreciate perspectives on this issue.  answer being a postdoc is a job. you are not a slave for academia, nor is your reasearch so important  no offense  that you have to continue it no matter what happens to your life.  nobody is research is.    you are a professional and should act as such. there is nothing to be guilty about. any reasonable person knows and understands that there are reasons which end one is participation in a project even if there is no  outcome  of the project. probably your supervisor would feel more guilty if you feel the need to stay just because of them.  i do not mean to be harsh -- it is only human to feel guilty about such things. what would you do if your were the supervisor  talk about your feelings with your friends -- emotional questions like this are better discussed with trusted people than on the internet.   just for completeness, given the recent situation: if you were an absolute key person in the research of coronavirus and countermeasures, maybe it could be argued that you should stay until you transferred all your knowledge. 	
how do i know when it is bad enough to get help  answer with so much advice telling people to stay home, it can be hard to know when emergency treatment is necessary. the centers for disease control and prevention said these symptoms should prompt you to seek emergency care.   difficulty breathing   persistent pain or pressure in the chest   confusion or inability to arouse   bluish lips or face   any other symptom that is severe or concerning	
what are the disinfectants recommended for environmental cleaning in healthcare facilities or homes housing patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection  answer environmental cleaning in healthcare facilities or homes housing patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection should use disinfectants that are active against enveloped viruses, such as 2019-ncov and other coronaviruses. there are many disinfectants, including commonly used hospital disinfectants, that are active against enveloped viruses. currently who recommendations include the use of:70  ethyl alcohol to disinfect reusable dedicated equipment  e.g., thermometers  between usessodium hypochlorite at 0.5   equivalent 5000ppm  for disinfection of frequently touched surfaces in homes or healthcare facilitiesclick here for the guidance on clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when novel coronavirus  ncov  infection is suspected.click here for the guidance on infection prevention and control during health care when novel coronavirus  ncov  infection is suspected.more information about environmental cleaning can be found here.	
i live in a fairly desirable area with one drawback: my apartment overlooks a multi-lane restricted access parkway. i would prefer not to say more for privacy reasons. until recently, it is been only a minor annoyance.  but since things have been locked down due to the coronavirus outbreak, i have been spending a lot more time at home, and the traffic on the parkway has gotten lighter, meaning that at least anecdotally speeds have increased. the result is a huge increase in infrasound. it is like my whole apartment is shaking all day.  i am obviously not expecting the state to shut down traffic on the road completely for my comfort. it does seem like a reasonable expectation that the people driving on a roadway should get at least close to the legal speed limit, however. the posted speed on the road is 30 miles per hour, while drivers routinely flout this going 60 or 70 miles per hour.  i have already tried writing to my city government, who referred me to a state agency who has not written back. i have also contacted the person who represents me in my state legislature. his office too has not written back to me.  what is the most effective way to get my argument to a decision maker  would i be better served addressing this complaint to the police department with jurisdiction over the roadway  would i be better served organizing my neighbors and then returning to my state legislator with more of a coalition    i live in boston, massachusetts.   answer i see that this question has been migrated from politics.se, but i would argue that is the better forum for this question. we are talking about finding a way to enforce the law, but the options available to you are pretty solidly in the political category.  what you are doing is probably the best way to go. the state government is unlikely to do much, so stay on top of your local government.  communicate directly with the police, as many departments will make a point of setting up patrols in areas where they get complaints.   on top of that, get as many people as you can to support your cause. the more noise they make, the harder it is for the government to ignore the problem. circulate petitions, make calls, etc.  at the same time, keep in mind that this problem is a side effect of an emergency situation that is causing all sorts of problems that make yours look trivial by comparison. do not be surprised if emergency personnel conclude that this is too low priority to address, even if it is remarkably inconvenient to you personally. 	
should everyone be wearing masks  answer should everyone be wearing masks  everyone need not wear a mask. if you have a cough and cold, you should wear a mask to not transmit the infection to others. if you are a healthcare worker looking after covid-19 patients, then you need to wear a mask. but otherwise, a person who is going out for their day-to-day work, does not need to wear a mask. sometimes it can be harmful too because if you wear a mask you keep adjusting it and touching your face. in case you do end up touching an infected surface and then touch your mask, you might end up infecting yourself. there is no data to substantiate if healthy people benefit from wearing masks.	
what studies on treatment and prevention of covid-19 with antiretrovirals are being planned  answer several randomized trials are planned to assess the safety and efficacy of using antiretroviral drugs - mainly lpv/r - for treating covid-19, in combination with other drugs. results are expected from mid-2020 onwards.	
due to the coronavirus outbreak, my university has tentatively canceled all live forms of live education, including exams. instead, they have decided to hold exams through an online proctoring software  third-party , which requires access to the computer webcam, microphone, screen, and browsing history to work. this is the first time the university is doing an examination in this manner, and there are no official guidelines for how these exams are to be conducted. i am concerned about my data privacy in the context of these exams, and am wondering what my rights are and how i can exercise them. specifically, i am wondering whether i can refuse the collection of my personal data through the online proctoring software, and whether the university may reprimand me for doing so. if both are the case, how can i truly say that i  consent  to data collection and processing when i am coerced, so to speak, by the threat of failing my courses if i do not use this novel software    answer   how can i truly say that i  consent  to data collection and processing when i am coerced, so to speak, by the threat of failing my courses if i do not use this novel software    there is no need for you to  consent .  consent is just one of the reasons that allows a data processor to collect your data. there are other reasons that allows the data processor to capture your data.  in this case, it seems of application the  legitimate interest clause , as it is in your university is legitimate interest to capture your activity in order to evaluate you.  of course, that covers only the data collected that is relevant to that interest. they will certainly capture your identity and your answers, they may log your sessions and may try to gather some data to detect if you are somehow cheating, but they would not be allowed to check which are your favorite pornhub videos because that is not relevant for the university is legitimate interest.  art. 6 of the gdpr states:    processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies:   a  the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes    b  processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract    c  processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject    d  processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person    e  processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller    f  processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular where the data subject is a child.   this page also provides some in-depth analysis 	
i have covid-19 and am too unwell to breastfeed my baby directly. what can i do  answer if you are too unwell to breastfeed your baby due to covid-19 or other complications, you should be supported to safely provide your baby with breastmilk in a way possible, available, and acceptable to you. this could include:expressing milk relactation donor human milk.	
i made a non-refundable hotel room booking through hotels.com. the hotel has contacted me to inform me that they will not be open for business during my stay because of the coronavirus. i know i made the booking under the title  non-refundable , but my understanding is that i am not entitled to a refund only if i am the one to cancel the booking. i assume that, given the fact that the cancellation is not being made at my end and instead my order is not being fulfilled, i am entitled to a refund under eu contract law.  edit: the hotel did not charge me for the booking. my card has been charged by hotels.com. if i cancel the booking through hotels.com is website it says i will not be refunded any money.   answer if hotel is cancelling, you will get refund. since hotel said that they did not charge, you have two things to do.   contact booking site, hotels.com and explain the situation and ask them to reverse the charge. if they are non responsive, contact the credit card provider and say that you are disputing the charge, as you did not get the service. mention that you did not initiate the cancellation.   you will get your money back by then. 	
one of the most commonly used masks/recommended to protect against covid-19 is n95.   is there any upside of using n95 masks instead of n99 or n100 to protect against covid-19   n95 which filter 95  of particulates, while n99 or n100 filter 99  and 99.97 , respectively.  for example:    health officials recommend medical staff wear so-called n95 masks because they filter out about 95  of all liquid or airborne particles.   the n95 equivalent in europe is ffp2, the n99/100 equivalent in europe is ffp3, and the n95 equivalent in south korea is kf94.    prior research:  http://www.health.com/condition/infectious-diseases/n95-respirator-mask-coronavirus    infectious disease expert amesh a. adalja, md, senior scholar at the johns hopkins center for health security, tells health that the n95 is still the recommended face mask for health professionals, because it has the capacity to filter out very small particles that could possibly contain the virus.  this is different than a surgical mask, which can only stop larger droplets,  says dr. adalja.   http://emag.medicalexpo.com/which-masks-actually-protect-against-coronavirus/    in the united states, respirators must meet niosh  national institute for occupational safety and health  standards. within this standard, there are several classes of respirators depending on the degree of oil resistance:    class n: no oil resistance. a distinction is made between n95, n99 and n100. the number after the letter indicates the percentage of filtration of suspended particles   http://www.businessinsider.com/wuhan-coronavirus-face-masks-not-entirely-effective-2020-1    when worn correctly, n95 respirators block out at least 95  of small airborne particles. so the respirators can filter out some droplets carrying coronavirus. the coronavirus itself measures between .05 and 0.2 microns in diameter, according to a recent article in the lancet.     i have cross-posted the question at:   quora reddit   answer yes, there are several  upsides  as you put it.    it is cheaper it is easier to breath in it is sufficient for catching particles smaller than it is actually designed for...   now, that last point is what is important. according to 3m is own documentes on various types of filters and masks, it seem that there is an electrostatic effect between the layers of the filters and the particles hitting it. so:   filter  grid  does not have to be smaller than the particles themselves apparently because of the electrostatic effects, particles are attracted to - and prefer to stick to, the fibers of the filter.    from  2 :    because of the various mechanisms by which particulate filtration occurs, the smallest particles are typically not the most difficult to filter. most particulate filters have a region of lower filtration efficiency somewhere between 0.05-0.5 mm.1 particles in this range are large enough to be less effectively pushed around by diffusion, but small enough to be less effectively captured by interception or impaction. the most penetrating particle size  mpps  will depend on the filter media, air flow, and electrostatic charge on the particle. filters that use electrostatic attraction may have a mpps shifted to a slightly smaller size range.       appendix a  equivalent mask standards  1   n95  united states niosh-42cfr84  ffp2  europe en 149-2001  kn95  china gb2626-2006  p2  australia/new zealand as/nza 1716:2012  korea 1st class  korea kmoel - 2017-64  ds  japan jmhlw-notification 214, 2018    appendix b  classiifcations   2   standard classification filter efficiency niosh 42 cfr 84 n95    95  niosh 42 cfr 84 n99    99  niosh 42 cfr 84 n100    99.97  en 149:2001 ffp1  filtering facepiece     80  en 149:2001 ffp2  filtering facepiece     94  en 149:2001 ffp3  filtering facepiece     99  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p1  elastomeric facepiece     80  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p2  elastomeric facepiece     94  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p3  elastomeric facepiece     99.95  gb2626-2006 kn/kp90    90  gb2626-2006 kn/kp95    95  gb2626-2006 kn/kp100    99.97    references:   1 comparison-ffp2-kn95-n95-filtering-facepiece-respirator-classes  2  respiratory protection for airborne exposures to biohazards  3  faq  4  mask shelf-life  5  various disposable  6  3m disposable respirators for personal safety  7  surgical n95 vs. standard n95  	
is the virus a dna molecule protected by a thin layer of fat that will disintegrate if that fat layer is removed outside your body  answer sars-cov-2 particles are spherical bundles of genetic material  rna surrounded by a fatty outer layer  lipids  with proteins called spikesprotruding from the surface. these spikes latch onto receptor proteins onhuman cells in the lungs and other tissues and change the structure of thosehuman cells, allowing the viral genes to enter the host cell to be copied,producing more viruses.viruses need a host to  survive,  and the fat layer breaks down when it is outon its own in the environment.  preliminary researchsuggests  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/health/2020/03/05/coronavirus-us-cases-symptoms-travel-deaths-prepare/4904568002/  that the virus is stable outside the body for differentperiods of time, depending on the climate and surface. you can  kill  thevirus using soap, extreme heat and ultraviolet light, and each attacks adifferent part of this virus structure. soap breaks up the fatty outer layer.heat breaks up the protein spikes. and uv light breaks up the genes inside.	
will the warmer weather stop the spread  answer scientists are still looking into this.    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/health/warm-weather- coronavirus.html  some studies  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/health/warm-weather- coronavirus.html     suggest that warmer places account for a smaller share of global cases and have had slower infection rates. but none of these findings have been peer-reviewed yet. and even if a certain temperature and humidity diminished the spread, that would not preclude the virus  return when the weather cools again. we are providing free access to the most important news and useful guidance on the coronavirus outbreak to help you understand the pandemic. get the  latest news and more information here  http://www.nytimes.com/news- event/coronavirus .	
what do funeral home workers need to know about handling decedents who had covid-19  answer a funeral or visitation service can be held for a person who has died of covid-19. funeral home workers should follow their routine infection prevention and control precautions when handling a decedent who died of covid-19. if it is necessary to transfer a body to a bag, follow standard precautions, including additional personal protective equipment  ppe  if splashing of fluids is expected. for transporting a body after the body has been bagged, disinfect the outside of the bag with a product with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. follow the manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time, etc. . wear disposable nitrile gloves when handling the body bag. embalming can be conducted. during embalming, follow standard precautions including the use of additional ppe if splashing is expected  e.g. disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and n95 respirator . wear appropriate respiratory protection if any procedures will generate aerosols or if required for chemicals used in accordance with the manufacturer is label. wear heavy-duty gloves over nitrile disposable gloves if there is a risk of cuts, puncture wounds, or other injuries that break the skin. additional information on how to safely conduct aerosol-generating procedures is in the cdc is postmortem guidance. cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer is instructions. products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon are expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. follow the manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time . after cleaning and removal of ppe, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol if soap and water is not available. soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled. decedents with covid-19 can be buried or cremated, but check for any additional state and local requirements that may dictate the handling and disposition of the remains of individuals who have died of certain infectious diseases.	
i am sure this question has been asked in some capacity on this site. i am a first year graduate student. i was contracted for a summer program that would have looked very good on my cv about 6 weeks ago.   however, due to the spread of covid-19 the program was cancelled. is there any way i can express this on my cv  possibly have an asterisk next to this activity   if not, how should i explain the situation when applying for positions next year  because, now it is unlikely i will have anything noteworthy to put on my cv for this summer .  thank you  answer list it as an achievement.    awards and achievements      selected for competitive summer program, summer school on abcde. scholarship awarded  attendance cancelled due to covid-19.     i think this is completely appropriate, for the same reasons as argued on this related thread. note: i added  scholarhip awarded , but obviously you should not put that if there was no scholarship :   in general, the purpose of your cv is to brag as much as possible  include everything that sounds impressive, even if you personally do not think it is that impressive. for instance, if you got accepted to two programs and only could attend one, i would list both. it is the same thing here -- the fact that covid-19 is the circumstance is just a detail, not relevant to whether the acceptance is appropriate to list. 	
who should get tested  answer tests are limited and most state and local health authorities will tell you not to get tested, even if you have symptoms, unless:    you have symptoms and were recently in contact with someone who tested positive for coronavirus.  you have symptoms and need to be hospitalized.  cotton swabs and tests are in short supply, so if you do not fall into the above two categories, chances are your doctor will not order a test.     still, if you have symptoms, call your medical doctor to be advised on how to proceed. you most likely will be directed to self-quarantine for 14 days.    for all of us, stay safe, stay home, keep your distance, wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, and cover your coughs and sneezes.	
i have always lived with family and been a student, so apart from odd jobs here and there i have never really worked full time or reached a minimum taxable threshold of income. on top of this, i am currently overseas. what i am wondering is, am i still eligible to receive a covid19 stimulus check   answer if you have not  and will not  file your taxes for 2018 or 2019 then the only way to receive the check is to file for 2020 next spring. the check is actually an advance on a 2020 tax credit, so you can take it now or later.  however, for this year you have until july 15 to file your 2019 taxes. even if you have  200 in income for the year, might as well file so you get the stimulus check sooner.  note that if you are a dependent on someone else is return then you are not eligible for the stimulus check. 	
disclaimer: i am a scientist, but this is not my main field so sorry if i have not used the correct terminology at this busy time...  since the coronavirus protein bonds with and gains entry to the cell by bonding to ace2 receptor, does anyone happen to be currently working upon inhibition of the ace2 receptor   obviously it is not straight forward just to use an inhibitor of some sort without accounting for side effects, but is this form of therapy a potentially practical avenue   i anticipate that this relationship with ace2 is why we get pneumonia with covid19 since ace2 is abundant in the lungs, heart and kidneys... and that perhaps it is why people with cardiovascular disease and problems have the highest mortality   from my understanding, there would be potential cardiac and renal issues. possibly the negative effects of inhibitors may be reduced or managed by iv infusion of angiotensin 1-7, or supporting drugs  i.e. a vasodilator  as ace2 will not be able to work on converting angiotensin 2   to anyone whom is working in this area specifically, what i am really asking is, is this a viable avenue to consider, as a management strategy to reduce spread of the virus in-vivo   the infection route and effects make me wonder how many people that recover from covid19 may unfortunately suffer later cardiological or renal issues due to damage in ace2 expression within the lungs... and not just lung damage from the virus or resulting pneumonia.  i.e fibrosis of cardiac tissues, etc   i have found this: http://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijpep/2012/256294/  which seems to suggest that it has been studied to an extent in animals, but find limited information.      note i am talking about ace2 inhibition not ace inhibitors that are often used in heart failure  answer the problem appears to be that the sars-cov-2 virus binds to the ace2 receptor and carries the receptor into the cell where the rna of the virus is then released. because the cell now lacks ace2 surface receptors this leads to intracellular damage due to lack of inhibition of at1-r in the renin angiotensin system.   the cells that are damaged in the lung are deep alveolar cells that make surfactant and this collapses the alveoli causing acute respiratory distress syndrome. interestingly lung infiltrates are seen early in the disease hence the use in china of ct chest scans for screening before rapid pcr became available. ace2 are also found widely throughout the heart and gut the latter where it assists enzymes that are transporting amino acids. the ace2 receptor bearing cells are found in cardiac tissue, lung, gut, macrophages etc and the main clinical effect of their loss of function is to cause cardiopulmonary damage.  if you were to create a drug that targeted the ace2 receptor then you would be replicating the deleterious effect of the virus which inter alia blocks the protective effect of ace2 on pulmonary and renal damage.  there is been some experimental work showing that a fully humanised soluble ace2 receptor can bind to the virus and blocks entry into the ace2 bearing cells. it works like a neutralising antibody to the virus.   this treatment is currently awaiting chinese fda approval for clinical trials.  josef penninger  http://youtu.be/jaw6vbwtiaa 	
if i read figure 2 of ... the impact of influenza on excess mortality ... correctly, the excess mortality due to flu in italy during the peak weeks of the flu epidemic of 2016-2017 was about 800 deaths/day. this is way more than what is happening  with covid-19 now. how come the health system is so stressed now   is it due to geographical distribution  lombardy   which italy could not compensate by moving resources  or is it a different distribution of deaths vs. being in intensive care  or what   answer the big difference in italy today is that many younger, otherwise healthier patients need critical care and more generally that patients need critical care for a long time. these patients are not necessarily dying after they get care, but the extent to which the surviving patients require ventilators and supplemental oxygen is nothing like a seasonal flu and is likely inflating the death rate substantially among those who could otherwise be treated.  from nejm: http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmp2005492    contributing to the resource scarcity is the prolonged intubation many of these patients require as they recover from pneumonia -- often 15 to 20 days of mechanical ventilation, with several hours spent in the prone position and then, typically, a very slow weaning. in the midst of the outbreak is peak in northern italy, as physicians struggled to wean patients off ventilators while others developed severe respiratory decompensation, hospitals had to lower the age cutoff -- from 80 to 75 at one hospital, for instance.  	
due to the covid-19 pandemic, the federal government has decided to extend its tax filing and payment deadline to july 15th. so, if i were to file today, will i get my refund check in the mail this month or will i not get it until after july 15th  i would like to get it sooner than latter  of course . i am within the united states. i plan to e-file through an online service like creditkarma or turbotax.  answer generally the irs processes your return as soon as they can. so unless there is an issue that causes them to have to stop processing returns you will get your refund in a few weeks. it does depend on direct deposit vs paper check.  usually each year they set a date in january or february when they will start processing returns, but if you file after that date they will get to them as quickly as possible.  people who are due a refund generally file early to get their money earlier. those that owe tend to file at the last minute.  	
for what i read  1 , covid19 can persist active in a common freezer for months or years  it seems pretty obvious: cold, humid... . my question does not regard only the currently active coronavirus at this posting date, but any.  so, i imagine that if the surface of a bottle or bag is contaminated, taking it, a month later will start the spreading mechanism, do not know, hands, surfaces, face, etc. and the virus will spread internally in the refrigerator, given that common refrigerators have channels that spill drops which flow through the cold and warm refrigerating sections. or internal ventilators.  under such perspective, a common refrigerator would act moreover as a petri dish. completely different from the rest of house surfaces, which would allow viruses vanishing way more faster.  if that is so, is it possible to clean a fridge from coronavirus  do common refrigerators increase the risk of propagation    1  http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/ops/hsc-scen-3-coronavirus-3.htm  ... covid-19 coronavirus could last up to two years at below freezing temperatures     2  http://covid19.nj.gov/faqs/coronavirus-information/about-novel-coronavirus-2019/will-the-coronavirus-survive-in-the-refrigerator-or-freezer   it is also expected that the virus would survive being frozen    answer since the virus replicates via human cells, how do you expect it to proliferate inside a refrigerator  and if you had human tissue  lungs, hearts, kidney, bowel  in your fridge, it still needs to be alive to proliferate as it hijacks the living cells intra-cellular machinery.  so, you are not going to get any more virus out than you put in. therefore if you disinfect before you put it into the fridge, you will not get any virus out.  if you are talking about the infected deceased coming out of the mortuary fridge    there is no evidence so far of transmission of sars-cov-2 through the handling of bodies of deceased persons.  the potential risk of transmission related to the handling of bodies of deceased persons with suspected or  confirmed covid-19 is considered low and can be related to:    direct contact with human remains or bodily fluids where the virus is present    direct contact with contaminated fomites.    as viable sars-cov-2 may persist on surfaces for days  7 , there is the possibility that the virus also persists on  deceased bodies. therefore, unnecessary contact with bodies should be minimised by those not wearing personal  protective equipment  ppe . those in direct contact with deceased cases of covid-19  both suspected or  confirmed  should be protected from exposure to infected bodily fluids, contaminated objects, or other  contaminated environmental surfaces through wearing of appropriate ppe. minimum requirements include gloves  and a long-sleeved water-resistant gown.   http://www.ecdc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/documents/covid-19-safe-handling-of-bodies-or-persons-dying-from-covid19.pdf 	
decision on how long to keep the economy  shut down  depends on the evaluation of how deadly/infectious coronavirus is.   so i would assume that countries would try to test random members of  healthy  no sign of illness  population to determine the spread in the population.  i assume this was not done because tests are in high demand for people that exhibit symptoms, but could not find any confirmation for my thesis.  there is this question from 3 weeks ago, but from what i understand no answer claims there is a generalized sampling.  answer this may seem counterintuitive, but constructing and administering a properly random testing paradigm is difficult and time-consuming. it is not as though we can gather everyone in a big room, put their names in a hat, and then call them out one-by-one to get tested. there are a number of different issues that need to be resolved, e.g.:   people are not randomly distributed. in the real world they cluster by race, religion, economic status, political affiliation, occupation, and other demographic factors. a purely random sample  unless it is immense  will likely underrepresent or overrepresent specific populations. people are not easy to find. say that joe smith is someone randomly chosen to be tested. what if we can not reach him by phone or email  what if we send a testing kit to him and he neglects to return it, or uses the kit incorrectly  what if we send a iswabber  to his house, only to find he is not home, or refuses to open the door  depending on methodology, sampling in this context can have massive non-participation, and the more non-participants we see, the weaker our statistical results are. people are not infected entirely randomly. infections are a markov chain, where one must be in specific kinds of contact with an infected person to have a chance of being infected, and then  if infected  must be in the same specific kinds of contact with uninfected people to pass it on. modeling a markov chain as though it were purely random misses important aspects of the way a disease is spread, and will skew results badly. perhaps most importantly, the spread of a pandemic is a fluid situation, not a stable characteristic of individuals. collecting physical samples from people requires a tremendous amount of time and labor  driving to a home and collecting a sample, driving to another home and collecting a sample, repeat, repeat, drive back to homes where people were absent and try again . even if we could muster a veritable army of iswabbers  for our random sampling of nearly 400 million people, we can expect the actually swabbing to take at least a week  generously , and in a week the number of infections has doubled and doubled again. the first people swabbed are not being drawn from the same statistical population as the last people swabbed, and our statistics will suffer. and then we have to ask about our swabbers, who are all part of the population we are sampling, and all of whom have been exposed to large numbers of potentially infected people...   the upshot is that if we were to take the time to properly construct and implement a large-scale random sample, the disease would be spreading while we were designing the methodology, the disease would be spreading while we were implementing the testing, and by the time we finished running the data we collected the disease would have spread further, making our results all but useless. i am not saying they would be entirely useless -- with appropriate statistical manipulations we can account for many of these issues -- but whatever use it has will be for future epidemiologists looking back on this pandemic. 	
update:  covid-19 global cases by johns hopkins csse  confirmed coronavirus cases and deaths by country and territory  related links:  covid-19 wikiquote  why is covid-19 prioritized over other infectious diseases   coronavirus disease  covid-19  outbreak - who    on 2020.01.30, the director-general of emergency committee convened by the who declared that the outbreak of 2019-ncov  2019 novel coronavirus  constitutes a pheic  public health emergency of international concern .  actions by country/region:  hong kong declares coronavirus emergency.  2020.01.25   italy declares state of emergency over coronavirus.  2020.01.31   u.s.a declared a public health emergency  phe .  2020.01.31   south korea raised threat alert to the highest level.  2020.02.23   some provinces of china lower emergency response as epidemic slows.  2020.02.26   my question:  what are the consequences of pheic, to china and to other countries     answer tl dr: there are not any tangible consequences, unless china or other countries decide to take any.    the world health organization is an agency of the united nations. but it does not have any legislative powers. its activities are limited to spending its budget on funding health-related research, spreading health information and funding healthcare projects which operate within the legal framework of the countries they operate in.   it might advise governments to take actions, like for example fund healthcare measures, discourage/promote products depending on their health impact, enact quarantines or discourage/promote certain medical procedures. but it does not have the authority to enforce any of those measures themselves.  now what exactly does it mean that the who declares a public health emergency of international concern  it is basically just a declaration, stating that the who believes that this is a problem people should take seriously. the who has done that 5 times before, each time in case of a global outbreak of an acute infectious disease:   2009  swine flu  2014  polio  2014  ebola  2016  zika  2019  kivu ebola   	
what does more severe illness mean  answer severity typically means how much impact the illness or condition has on your body is function. you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.	
can you catch coronavirus from your dog or cat  - javed answer this is highly unlikely to happen, according to scientists and vets. there have been no cases of pets passing the coronavirus to humans, and the same was true during the sars outbreak in 2003, when there was not a single case of pet-to-human transmission. sars is a very closely-related virus to the coronavirus that causes covid-19. it is possible that a pet is fur could become contaminated if an infected person has previously touched or stroked the animal. as always, you should wash your hands with soap and water after handling an animal or its lead, and avoid touching your nose and mouth. the novel coronavirus is thought to have originated in wildlife and passed to humans via a live animal market, but it is likely the first people infected actually ate infected meat. since then it has been spread from person to person. however, a malayan tiger at the bronx zoo recently tested positive for the virus. she was thought to have been infected by an asymptomatic zookeeper, so there is evidence of human-to-animal transmission.	
i hear it is only dangerous in older people and those with compromised immune systems.  answer according to the most recent report by the center for disease control and prevention  cdc , the number of hospitalizations and deaths were greatest among those between 65 - 74. yet 20  of those hospitalized for severe symptoms of covid-19 were between the ages of 20-44 years. 	
apparently, a new coronavirus related paid family leave law takes effect on 04/01/2020. i understand that, among commercial companies, it applies only to those under 500 employees  because, of course, companies that can afford lobbying cannot be burdened, but that is unrelated to the question.  the questions i have regarding that law:  1  does the new extended leave law apply to federal employees  more specifically, my wife works for veterans  affairs, and we would like to figure out whether she qualifies. on one hand, va has more than 500 employees, but on the other hand, va is not a commercial company, and i do not see in the reports specifics regarding the government employees.  2  would a mother of small children qualify for paid family leave to watch them while the schools are closed  this has become quite an issue as soon as the schools closed for the year.  answer the department of labor has a page about the law. some excerpts  boldface mine :    most employees of the federal government are covered by title ii of the family and medical leave act, which was not amended by this act, and are therefore not covered by the expanded family and medical leave provisions of the ffcra. however, federal employees covered by title ii of the family and medical leave act are covered by the paid sick leave provision.    and as to your question 2:    generally, the act provides that employees of covered employers are eligible for:    two weeks  up to 80 hours  of paid sick leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay because the employee is unable to work because of a bona fide need to care for an individual subject to quarantine  pursuant to federal, state, or local government order or advice of a health care provider , or to care for a child  under 18 years of age  whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19, and/or the employee is experiencing a substantially similar condition as specified by the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with the secretaries of the treasury and labor  and    up to an additional 10 weeks of paid expanded family and medical leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay where an employee, who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days, is unable to work due to a bona fide need for leave to care for a child whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19.    this page was quite easy to find, just by searching google for the title of the law...  	
why are vaccines required for our body is immune system to destroy viruses that cause the likes of covid-19 or polio, while viruses that cause the common-cold are self-limiting  go away on their own   what is so different about viruses that cause diseases requiring vaccines    answer there is not really an inherent difference between these viruses. polio is a run of the mill enterovirus - some of its closest relatives are  common colds , while others are less pleasant - see http://www.slideshare.net/tarekmahbubkhan/enteroviruses-and-polio for some examples. note that some  common cold  viruses have uncommon but nonetheless devastating polio like effects  a leading culprit for acute flaccid myelitis  polio-like paralysis  was the common cold enterovirus d68   http://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/piis1473-3099 18 30094-x/fulltext but i have not checked for updates lately . but for that virus, damaging replication in nerve tissue is at most a rare complication rather than a frequent one.  coronavirus has long been known for several strains of  common colds   they were just not as frequently deadly. unfortunately, we did not see the  cold and flu season  as a demonstration of defenselessness against viral outbreaks, and did not use the opportunity to practice exterminating them. 	
can i visit my neighbourhood elderly who stays alone  answer can i visit my neighbourhood elderly who stays alone  compassion is a medicine but you can put them at risk, so it is best to interact over video calls and not visit them.	
i have booked flight klm 4303 from frankfurt to beijing. all klm flights to beijing have been suspended until 15 march 2020. but on my online ticket it says that my flight is operated by china southern airlines. does that mean that the flight will still take place   answer official announcement from china government:    in light of the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus  ncov , we  would like to inform you that tianhe international airport  wuh  in  wuhan, hubei province, china is shut down to limit the possibility of  the virus to spread to other places. as for now, other chinese  airports are still operating.   due to this situation, there are a few consequences:  if you have a flight ticket from/to wuhan: your flight is canceled until further notice. you are entitled to a full refund.  if you have a flight ticket from/to other chinese cities: your flight is still operating, unless if there is an announcement from the airline about your flight.  if you are arriving from china: you will be subject to further screening at the destination airport as the authorities want to ensure the virus will not enter the country. please bear the extra process for safety reasons.  you can simply check your flight status from china southern airlines too by putting your booking number or ticket number.   it will also show the status. in addition, simply call china southern airlines to confirm which is the best and reliable way in this situation.  	
on friday, russia declined to participate in a plan devised by the saudi-led organization of the petroleum exporting countries  opec  to cut oil production levels, in order to keep oil prices steady in response to the covid-19 outbreak. the article describes this refusal as the cause of the 10  oil price crash on friday alone, which was exacerbated by a further 30  crash on monday.  what reasons has russia given for their refusal to participate in the opec group is plan   answer disclaimer: i am no expert, this answer is based on my modest understanding of the situation at play.  the opec decision to cut oil production was meant to keep prices high: if every opec country were selling all the oil they could, it would drive prices down since there would be more supply than demand. so if every opec country agrees to sell only a limited amount of oil, the global supply matches the global demand and prices stay high. naturally this works only if all the big oil producing countries play the game: it is tempting for a country to sell more than its agreed quota, especially if the price is high.  russia is not an official member of opec, only an observer. as such, it is free to follow opec policies or not, depending on its own interests and strategy. i am not aware of any official reason why russia refused to follow this particular recent decision, but it looks like a rational economic decision: if many oil producers  competitors  reduce their supply and the prices are high, why would russia limit their own supply if they have no obligation to     this refusal is cited as the cause of the 10  oil price crash on friday alone, which was exacerbated by a further 30  crash on monday.   this is not the full explanation: the russian refusal led saudi arabia to cancel the original plan to reduce production  guardian , and instead to flood the market with their own oil. this is what drove prices down sharply, especially in the current context of low demand due to the corona virus.  the saudi surprise strategy could arguably be interpreted as a kind of tactical response against russia is refusal to play according to opec rules: since russia apparently wants to reap the benefits of high prices without sacrificing their own production, saudi arabia is telling them that  two can play this game . the effect is that all the oil producing countries are going to suffer from low prices, but some more than others:    the new strategy adopted by riyadh appears to target russia and us shale oil firms, many of which are known to have high production costs and lose money when crude prices fall below  50 a barrel for more than a few months.   saudi arabia can produce oil at a lower cost than russia and us shale oil industry, so they are probably trying to use the opportunity of the russian refusal to get rid of some competitors: saudi arabia can afford to take a temporary economic hit, whereas many shale oil companies may go bankrupt quickly. strategically, their initiative is certainly also meant to assert their dominance on the oil market.     added: a similar analysis by kevin drum, found just after posting my answer     the nickel version of this story is that oil prices started declining in february due to fears of lower demand caused by the coronavirus outbreak. opec tried to cut a deal with russia to reduce output all around, but russia balked. saudi arabia then decided to bring out its big guns, lowering prices immediately by about  7 per barrel and announcing that it would increase output in order to take share away from russia. at that point the decline turned into a rout, with the price of wti crude collapsing to  28 as i write this.  	
screening does not work -- bbc reports coronavirus: chinese embassy in paris finds woman who  cheated  checks    the woman boasted on social media that she had been suffering from a fever, but managed to reduce her symptoms with medicine. she later posted pictures showing herself dining at what she claimed was a michelin-starred restaurant in lyon.the embassy has now confirmed that her symptoms are under control.  the woman left wuhan - where the new coronavrius emerged late last year - before flights were suspended, but when thermal scanning was in place.     5  airport screening after sars did not catch a single case   i do not believe wuhan coronavirus: travel bans for diseases like this do not work - vox. first, it just quotes past cases, but past performance does not predict future. second, is not obvious that lowering wuhan people means lowering risk. i know banning china flights will not stop every case.   answer they may do so at some point if the risk is deemed high enough  remember that who still does not consider this as a severe enough pandemic at the international level .  however:   why would they ban flights from all over china, when a majority of the cases are concentrated in a much, much smaller area  remember that china is quite large. it would be akin to banning travel from all of europe after an outbreak in a single city. at the opposite end of the spectrum, if you consider that the virus has reached many places outside of china, why only ban flights from china rather than any country where there may have been any cases  unless all countries coordinate to completely isolate china  or whatever area is considered  infected  , then people will just travel via a third country, so the ban will be ineffective.   the difficult task of the health authorities is to balance reducing the risk that the virus spreads all over while not infringing on the freedoms to travel. they are constantly re-evaluating the risks based on the available info regarding number of cases, incubation period, ease of transmission, mortality rate, etc. it may be the case that this virus, even though new, is just no worse than the flu.  remember that a travel ban not only could be a problem in terms of freedoms and rights of the affected people  try telling us citizens they can not return home - the us government would be taken to court before you finished reading this sentence , but it also has a strong impact on the economy, which itself may have severe health repercussions.  there are probably millions of people who catch the flu, and thousand who die from it every year in your country  i know that is the case in mine . do you think all travel in or out  or even within  yours should be stopped during the winter because of this  	
i am planning to rent an apartment for a year in cambridge, uk. we liked a property, but the owner wants to rent it through booking.com, and he is physically located in switzerland. he sent us the following email.    hi     ,    i am sure you are aware of the current virus pandemic spread  worldwide  all doctors here in switzerland are now the 1st line of  defense in the race to control the spread of the virus. since i am  working over 16 hours/day to help my colleagues to fight this pandemic  and as well it is not recommended to get a flight these days, a viewing  before completing the transaction through booking.com would not be  possible.    also a video tour of the property is available if you would like to  check it out: url   allow me to explain the booking.com process step by step.      upon your request, i will list the property online on booking.com for gbp 1,100 / month with all the bills included.  i will send you the booking invitation through the booking.com system so you will have 24 hours to confirm it or the invitation will  expire.  once you receive the booking invitation from booking.com, you will have to choose your check-in date   this would be the date that you  would prefer to move in    amp  staying period   minimum one month and  maximum five years    after registration, you will have to pay ps 2,200 to booking.com to get your reservation confirmed. the payment of ps 2,200 would be used  as a 1  one  month of rent   1  one  month security deposit. you can  use it as the last month of rent or take it back at the end of your  stay.  booking.com will automatically provide the tenancy agreement. booking.com is policy allows maximum 1-month bookings, but choosing a  more extended period will enable you to have the contract for it and  receive the invoice each month during the selected period.  your deposit will be held by booking.com in their system until your check-in, after which will be put in a dps as per law.  after booking.com confirms your payment of ps 2,200 keycafe   http://keycafe.com   will provide you the location of the keys since  it is their main partner in these transactions. if you do not like the  property for any reason, booking will refund your money on the same  day. if, after the viewing, you decide to rent it, you will have to  sign the tenancy agreement and forward it to me by fax or email.    let me know when would be the best time for you to list the property  online on booking.com and forward you the listing.     is this a genuine method to rent properties in a different country through booking.com, or is it part of an elaborate scam   answer this is 100  to be a scam. let is see why:   a viewing before completing the transaction through booking.com would not be possible.  lt   this is where you should run screaming and not read anything else. even if the place exists, how would you know it is not a mold infested, badly insulated garbage heap  if they wanted to do a real long term rent through an app they would use airbnb which allows for this and not booking.com which does not. it is a huge red flag they want to use a platform not suited for long term.  i will send you the booking invitation through the booking.com system  lt   once again, airbnb has this but even there only after enquiring after a property, booking.com very simply does not have such a feature. this person is talking nonsense, we will see why. booking.com will automatically provide the tenancy agreement.  lt   the very reason booking.com stops at 30 days is because in a lot of jurisdictions 30 days is where a short term becomes a tenancy and booking.com does not want to mess with tenancy agreements. booking.com most assuredly will not provide a tenancy agreement  i have first booked an apartment with booking.com close to five years ago and there is nothing even remotely close to a tenancy agreement in all those emails, i reviewed a few again. if you do not like the property for any reason, booking will refund your money on the same day.  lt   booking.com does not exactly work like that. as this blog post shows, the host sets the cancellation policy and up until very very recently the scammer was able to siphon the funds off as soon as the reservation becomes 90  non-refundable, otherwise on the guest is check-in date. see for example here. right now, because of the covid-19 situation, they can only get their money one day past check in per this update but i somewhat suspect they are not 100  up-to-date. also, do you want to convince booking.com that the apartment simply does not exist within less than 24 hour before your money is gone  if booking.com does not side with you then your only avenue is to sue them in a dutch court of law.   finally, if i needed to make a grim bet, i would put my money on this being nothing more than bait-and-switch and they do not want to use booking.com: you agree to this, and after some hemming and hawing and probably a few juicy photos they come back complaining about some problems with booking.com listing and ask for a plain vanilla wu wire. by this time you are hopefully hooked enough to go ahead with it, if not, what is there to lose for them  you can even test it by agreeing and see what happens, just do not send money to them...   and if you are wondering how people rent long term in a different country: they might have boots on the ground  company or friend  and if they do not then just do a short term rent much like it would be a vacation and get a place once you are there. easy as pie. i did so when i landed in vancouver. 	
i work by myself and pay contractors. do i still have payroll  answer many sole proprietors or independent contractors have wondered what counts as payroll, if they do not have any employees. section 1102 a  2  a  viii  bb  expands the definition of payroll costs to include  the sum of payments of any compensation to or income of a sole proprietor or independent contractor that is a wage, commission, income, net earnings from self-employment or similar compensation that is not more than  100,000.  in its most recent guidance, the sba clarified that while income of sole proprietors and independent contractors count as payroll, payments to independent contractors do not count:  independent contractors have the ability to apply for a ppp loan on their own so they do not count for purposes of a borrower is ppp loan calculation.  payroll also includes payment of compensation to employees for:  salary, wages, commission  not to exceed  100,000  cash tips or equivalent vacation, parental, family, medical or sick leave severance or separation pay and any retirement benefit group health care benefit pay including insurance premiums state and local tax on the compensation of employees	
will businesses and schools close or stay closed in my community and for how long  will there be a  stay at home  or  shelter in place  order in my community  answer cdc makes recommendations, shares information, and provides guidance to help slow down the spread of covid-19 in the u.s. including guidance for schools and businesses. cdc regularly shares information and provides assistance to state, local, territorial, and tribal health authorities. these local authorities are responsible for making decisions including  stay at home  or  shelter in place.  what is included in these orders and how they are implemented are also decided by local authorities. these decisions may also depend on many factors such as how the virus is spreading in a certain community. please contact your local health department to find out more.	
how can i protect my child from covid-19 infection  answer you can encourage your child to help stop the spread of covid-19 by teaching them to do the same things everyone should do to stay healthy.  avoid close contact with people who are sick. stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care. cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash. wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects  e.g., tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles . launder items, including washable plush toys, as appropriate and in accordance with the manufacturer is instructions. if possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people is items.  you can find additional information on preventing covid-19 at prevention for 2019 novel coronavirus and at preventing covid-19 spread in communities. additional information on how covid-19 is spread is available at how covid-19 spreads. more information on children and coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  is available online.	
there are various statistics estimating mortality of covid-19 infections, based on how many diagnosed people have died. these numbers are used by various media to extrapolate how many people will die if the disease spreads uncontrollably.  however, what is missing here are the undiagnosed infected  due to their immune system fighting the virus fast enough and thus only presenting with mild, or no, symptoms .  do we have any data or estimates for the percentage of infected people that are asymptomatic   answer   the proportion of individuals infected by sars-cov-2 who remain  asymptomatic throughout the course of infection has not  yet been definitely assessed.    the covid-19 epidemic, tropical medicine  amp  international health  2020      the asymptomatic ratio is thus estimated at 41.6   95  confidence interval  ci : 16.7 , 66.7   among evacuees. because fourteen days have elapsed since their departure from wuhan--longer than the 95th percentile estimate of the covid-19 incubation period  li et al., 2020  linton et al., 2020 --there is very little probability that the five virus-positive asymptomatic individuals will develop symptoms. should one of the five becomes symptomatic in the future, the overall asymptomatic ratio would decrease to 33.3   95  ci: 8.3 , 58.3  .     estimation of the asymptomatic ratio of novel coronavirus infections  covid-19 , international journal of infectious diseases  2020      our estimated asymptomatic proportion is at 17.9   95 cri: 15.5-20.2  , which overlaps with a recently derived estimate of 33.3   95  confidence interval: 8.3-58.3   from data of japanese citizens evacuated from wuhan  13 .    estimating the asymptomatic proportion of coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  cases on board the diamond princess cruise ship, yokohama, japan, 2020, eurosurveillance  2020      table s1. model parameters. all time periods are given in days.  parameter baseline distribution reference/reason   alternative values   ... pr asymptomatic   infection  0.178  0.1, 0.5  beta mizumoto et al.  13   lower, higher      estimating unobserved sars-cov-2 infections in the united states  preprint   2020   	
what if the corona virus gets to an old person who gives it to a 10-year-old. how strong will the virus be in the 10-year-old  answer the exact same virus affects different people in different ways. it can make an older person very sick and hardly get a 10-year-old sick at all. researchers do not know why that is yet, but they are working hard to find out.	
there is a fundamental discrepancy or paradox that has been keeping myself, and many others, away from the stock market. before i explain it, let me mention some selected popular questions on this site in which the consensus is that in the long term a broad investment in the stock market will yield a substantially positive average annual return rate:  why should we expect stocks to go up in the long term   why do people claim that stock markets are broadly exponential in the long term   why is not everybody rich   stock market long term risks  is it a lie that you can easily make money passively in the stock market   are index funds really as good as  experts  claim   in view of all this consensus, we can almost say that it has become  common knowledge  that investing in the broad stock market  sufficient diversification  on a long term perspective  several decades  is a very good investment strategy. more precisely, the consensus seems to be that there is some average annual return rate, say 3   replace this number by something higher/lower if you prefer , such that if your investment is diversified enough and your timespan is long enough, the risk that your actual average annual return rate drops below that rate tends towards zero.  now comes the first question: why does not any  serious  bank offer a savings account with a fixed 2  interest rate for an unlimited amount of time    after all, a large bank has the optimal prerequisites for diversification and holding stocks for many decades, and if the above is true, then they would still earn at least 1  of their customer is account values each year by essentially doing not very much except buying and selling some index funds according to what customers want to withdraw or pay in.   my own first objection to the question would be the following: if there is a market crash and at the same time a lot of customers want to withdraw money from their accounts, the bank might be in big trouble because the total value of the stocks owned by the bank could be less than what the customers want to withdraw.  however, i feel that this is not really an objection because even without the above  obvious product  banks will always be in trouble if their customers want to withdraw too much money at once.   what is bothering me even more is the  second question: why do not all banks borrow a huge amount of money from the central bank and invest it in the stock market on a broad, long-term basis    as far as i know, banks can borrow money from the central bank at quite low interest rates  much less than the expected long-term average annual return rate of the broad stock market , in europe that interest rate is currently even negative. so why do not all banks just buy index funds using this free money and just hold them forever, watching them grow in value     edit: after the first few answers  and some downvotes  i immediately realized that it was a big mistake to specialize the question in the sense that i only asked why banks do not do the  obvious  things, rather than having simply asked why no-one or no specialized company does the  obvious  things. i am very glad that in the further course of events my question was received in a slightly more abstract way. thank you all for your answers and upvotes, earning me a gold badge with my very first question on this site  if one could only trade in those badges for their real world counterparts...  -   answer fundamentally, i think there is a high level  and perhaps unsatisfying  answer to this. it is because that is not  banking  as a business, and a bank is established to do banking, not to get into the stock market. in other words, this question strikes me about the same as asking,    why do not ice cream shops stop selling ice cream, and instead get in the business of selling pancakes  after all, you can make a lot of money selling pancakes.   well yes, you can get rich selling pancakes, but not every business is a pancake shop. certainly, some businesses get rich selling pancakes, but other businesses with different motivations and risk tolerances decide to sell ice cream instead.  to make this clear in your banking context: such a business would essentially be called a hedge fund or investment management company, not a bank. it is fine if a company wants to be a hedge fund, but a company that is calling itself a bank can not secretly switch over to being a hedge fund, and still call itself a bank while supporting  banking  activities for normal consumers.  from a more practical perspective, most jurisdictions have carefully developed regulations that would essentially prohibit a business calling itself a bank from doing what you are discussing. essentially, these regulations exist because of my first point - the business model you are describing is not  banking.  and, regulations are designed around that, in the sense that regulations keep banks acting like banks and stop them from trying to act like something that is not a bank.  i am editing to clarify a portion of your question, as an example of this disconnect. you said,    as far as i know, banks can borrow money from the central bank at quite low interest rates   that is not really the whole story. think of it this way. imagine if you were to walk into a retail bank right now, and ask for a loan for a million dollars. the bank would certainly ask you some questions, including asking what you intended to do with that money and how you could show proof that you are able to pay it back. if you were able to prove that you have a large and stable income, and that you were planning on using the million dollars to purchase a home that is actually worth a million dollars, you might get approved. but what if you told the bank,  i am actually empty handed, but i am going to go invest this in the stock market, i think i have a proven way to make a positive return  - they might deny you on the spot, or at least they might have a lot more questions for you   the relationship between central banks and retail banks is fundamentally similar. a retail bank can not just call up the central bank and say,  please wire me a billion dollars  and instantly, the money shows up. retail banks essentially have to go through a process of validating their operational intentions, showing proof that they can pay the loan back, and perhaps even putting up collateral, before the money changes hands. and, a retail bank with no collateral who indicated that they wanted to play the stock market would almost certainly get turned down by the central bank.  i am making another edit to address another core flaw in your assumptions. you said,    we can almost say that it has become  common knowledge  that investing in the broad stock market  sufficient diversification  on a long term perspective  several decades  is a very good investment strategy   while that may be a sound theory it is not a practical method for a bank to keep or invest assets, because of liquidity and predictability. it may be accurate to say that  in the long term  a diversified stock portfolio can be bulletproof. but banks can not issue cash to deposit customers based on long term theories. they have to be able to predict the availability of funds very well - the stability of their outcomes, not just the expected result. in other words, if a bank has  10 billion in assets, they need to know precisely how much of that will be available to them tomorrow, or next tuesday, or in six months. your stock market theory may have the right expected outcome  positive growth , but it is got far too much potential variance on any particular day. yes,  in the long run  you may make money, but can you tell me exactly how much cash you will have next tuesday  no, you can not. you might have an acceptable expected outcome on average for all  next tuesdays  - but what if coronavirus takes off in the us this weekend  or something else happens  banks are not just concerned about the expected outcome, they are also concerned about variability in the range of expected outcomes. people do  banking activities  like deposit their paycheck into a deposit account, or take out a credit card loan, with the expectation of stability and availability of funds. those  features  which are essentially the definition of retail banking come as a trade off in terms of a slightly lower return  compared to your stock market portfolio . 	
how do i stay active in and around the home  answer try and reduce long periods of time spent sitting, whether for work, studying, watching tv, reading, or using social media or playing games using screens. reduce sitting for long periods by taking short 3-5 minute breaks every 20-30 minutes.simply stand up and stretch or even better, take a walk around the house, up and down the stairs, or into the garden. by just moving around and stretching you can improve your health and wellbeing. for more ideas and illustrations of healthy stretchessee here.set up a regular routine to be active every day, by planning a physical activity or exercise break either by yourself, by joining an online class, or by setting up a time to be active online with your friends or colleagues. making a specifictime to be active helps ensure you get your daily physical activity. put the time in your diary, and it will help remind you. stick with it, as this will help you build a regular routine, and help you adjust to new ways of working, study and familylife under covid-19 restrictionsbe active with your family and friends, connecting with others can help you and your family in the home and elsewhere spend time together and be active. planning time to be active with your children withactive games at home, walks in the parks, or cycling can be a way the whole family can relax, be together and be active and healthy whilst at home. set yourself and your family be active goals, by choosing a specific type of activity, time of day and/or number of minutes you will do every day. get each family member to choose their own goal which sets a bit of a challenge but isrealistic with help from family or friends and motivation. record your progress on a weekly activity chart and, if you think it would help, reward yourself with something you value.http://www.euro.who.int/en/health-topics/health-emergencies/coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov-technical-guidance/stay-physically-active-during-self-quarantine/ recache fbclid iwar2rqyvybnmpdcmjbwqmoz0hzxzmit 9ykzxu6zhjgnywrtezwouqefu8v0more physical activity ideas to help you stay activefor infants under 1 year of agespend regular time doing floor-based play with your baby in a prone position   notummy time   and spread this throughout the day while baby is awake.for children under 5 years of ageactive play in and around the home - invent games which involve being active and can develop skills in throwing, catching, kicking, as well as developing posture and balance.active play and games where children get out of breath, such as running around, skipping and jumping.for children and adolescents aged 5-17 yearsactive games and active play with family.join in online active games or activity classes, also look for online physical education classes as well as exercise routines suitable for adolescents.set up playground games indoors such as jump rope and hop-scotch - make up new games and challenges that involve being active. learn a new skill - for example try an learn to juggle. encourage doing some muscle strength training activities such as lifting weights or use improvised weight such as bottles full of water or sand.for adults climb up the stairs as much as you can, think of it as an opportunity to be active. use household chores as a way to be more physical activity. join in an online exercise class or make up your own routine to music you enjoy that uses the major muscle groups and raises you heart rate. do some muscle strengthening activities such as lifting weights or improvise using full bottles of water or simply use your own body weight and do sets of press ups, sit ups and squats. make time for fun, such as dancing to music.where to get more help and informationfor more ideas use internet search platforms and check out social media for suggestions and access to free resources suitable for children of all ages and adults of all fitness and abilities.	
can i go out in my vehicle to pick up someone who is stranded somewhere  answer can i go out in my vehicle to pick up someone who is stranded somewhere  yes, you can but only if the person concerned is not stranded outside the city limits	
what are the recommendation regarding disinfection of vehicles, goods and products coming from china or other covid-19 affected countries  answer to date there is no epidemiological information to suggestthat contact with goods, products or vehicles shipped from covid-19 affectedcountries have been the source of covid-19 in humans.for these reasons, there is no disinfection recommendationsfor any goods and products coming from covid-19 affected countries given thatthere is no available evidence that these products pose a risk to publichealth. who will continue to closely monitor the evolution ofcovid-19, and will update the recommendations as needed.	
what is involved in testing for the coronavirus  is it the same as when they do a nasal swab for influenza  answer to collect a sample for a diagnostic test for sars-cov-2, the virus that causes the covid-19 disease, doctors typically use the same method of collection as they would for influenza: a nasopharyngeal swab. for this swab, a tiny q-tip on plastic or a wire stem is put up your nose about 3 or 4 inches.     i have had it done, and it is mildly uncomfortable for a few seconds,  said gregory poland, director of the mayo clinic is vaccine research group.    a doctor may also do a throat swab. in some cases, if you have a  wet  cough, a doctor may also have you cough up some phlegm into a collection cup. these specimen are then packed with ice and shipped to a lab for testing.    to determine if someone has recovered from the coronavirus, at least two different nasal swabs taken at least 24 hours apart must test negative, poland said.	
what is the u.s. government doing to combat the virus  answer at the moment, the federal government is doing a lot of warning. the cdc has produced two dozen guidance documents for hospitals, instructions for preparedness and infection control. crucially, they are offering guidance on preserving personal protection equipment -- like masks and gloves -- in a recognition that a widespread outbreak is likely to impact already-low supplies. the trump administration has created a task force to oversee the response, led by health and human services secretary alex azar. but the administration has not named a coordinator to oversee a whole-of-government response, similar to what the obama administration did during the 2014-2015 ebola outbreak in west africa. in other words, there is no one person whose full-time job is to oversee the government is response. president trumpdonald john trumpwapo: trump allegedly asked fauci if officials could let coronavirus  wash over  us kansas supreme court upholds order banning religious services of over 10 people biden wins alaska primary more plans to hold a press conference on wednesday at 6:30 p.m. et alongside members of his coronavirus task force. his administration has requested  2.5 billion in emergency funding, but even republicans have been skeptical that that is enough to handle a widespread outbreak. senate democrats on wednesday said they would seek  8.5 billion in funding. on a state level, hospitals and public health officials are preparing for a growing number of cases. state health directors happen to be in washington this week for an annual meeting, and many spent wednesday walking the halls of congress, lobbying their members to support funding. at home, those officials are working to make sure their hospitals have the capacity they need to handle an outbreak -- enough beds, enough equipment and protective gear, enough laboratory capacity to test samples they take from potentially infected victims, and enough people to run the tests.  we are starting to work with hospitals and ems systems initially to make sure that they have all the capacity that they need,  shah said of maine is preparations.  the public should appreciate that hospitals are used to taking care of sick people. that is what they do.  what are the broader risks, beyond the virus  we have already seen the virus is impact in china, where factories and stores closed for days or weeks and cities have been quarantined to stop its spread. other countries may follow china is lead. frieden said the outbreak is likely to cost at least  100 billion to combat globally -- and maybe ten times as much, if things spiral out of control. but as in other outbreaks, the fallout is going to extend beyond immediate health concerns. when ebola broke out in west africa, more people died from other, treatable diseases -- malaria, cholera, even hiv -- because the health systems shut down. in this case, china is a major source of the generic drugs used in the united states, for everything from hypertension to diabetes. the virus is likely to impact supply chains, making scarce drugs that are completely unrelated to the coronavirus. experts recommend keeping a three-month supply of any prescription drugs you take on hand in case of that disruption.  the chinese manufacturing issue will affect us,  says michael osterholm, who directs the center for infectious disease research and preparedness at the university of minnesota.  we will have a major shortfall between what will be needed and what will be available.  personal protective equipment, like masks and gloves, are already in short supply after a particularly bad flu season. manufacturers are rushing to fill the gaps, but that takes time, and global demand is growing. the department of health and human services said it has a stockpile of about 30 million masks, but says it needs 300 million to protect front-line health care workers. those workers, who treat patients, would be most at risk of contracting the virus  more than 3,000 health care workers have been infected in china already. the broader economic impact is also unknown, though mark zandi, the chief economist at moody is analytics, said in a note to investors wednesday that the odds of a recession in the first half of the year now stand at 40 percent, twice what he predicted a few months ago.  if it is a pandemic, if it does show up in europe and the united states, then that is the prescription for a global and u.s. recession,  he said. the dow jones industrial average and the s p 500 are both off more than 6 percent in the last two days, the worst two-day drop in years. there is a decent chance that major sporting events and public gatherings will be delayed or canceled. a major trade show, the mobile world congress, has already been canceled in barcelona, spain. soccer games have been canceled in italy, and political demonstrations are temporarily banned in seoul, south korea. the organizers of the tokyo olympics, set for later this year, have insisted the games will go on. but a former top international olympic committee official, dick pound, cast doubt on those plans on tuesday, saying the organizers had about a three-month window in which to decide to pull the plug. the last time the olympics were canceled was in 1944, when games scheduled for italy and london were scrapped because of world war ii.	
what can you do to protect yourself  answer the no 1 thing you can do to protect yourself from coronavirus infection is to wash your hands, often and thoroughly. you need to rub the soap for 30 seconds to kill all potential virus molecules. washing for 20 seconds will only kill some of them. the who recommends singing happy birthday twice, but that can get pretty tedious, so choose your own favourite ditty -- but make sure it is a long one. use hand sanitiser if you can not get to a wash basin, but make sure it is an alcohol-based sanitiser with at least 60 per cent alcohol content -- the alcohol is required to kill viruses. do not touch your face, wash your hands before you eat, avoid touching hard shiny surfaces in public places such as on public transport, and stay away from sick people. stay home if you are sick. cough or sneeze into your elbow, not your hand, or into a tissue.	
what exactly does it mean to flatten the curve  answer flattening the curve refers to the rate at which people are getting infected. without intervention, the number of individuals who contract covid-19 rises exponentially, which means it doubles at a constant rate -- in this case, every three days. at such a rate, the number of infected individuals will overwhelm our hospital system, because we simply do not have enough hospital beds and respirators to treat them all. the united states does not even have enough protective equipment at present to protect its own health care workers.   doing the math, if one person is infected with the virus on jan 1, with the number of people infected people doubling every 3 days, then by march 31, over 1 billion people will have become infected. with the world population being around 7.8 billion, it would only take until april 9 for all of us to be infected.  the situation in italy has shown us that, without enough equipment, hospitals will be compelled to turn away some of the most infirmed among us, resulting in increased fatalities.   staying home does not prevent you from contracting the virus down the line, but from contracting the virus and overwhelming the medical establishment now. postponing exposure buys time for the scientific and medical community to develop effective treatments or a vaccine to minimize or protect against infection.	
can masks be reused by an infected person or used only once  answer the longer a mask is used and the more damp it becomes, the less effective itis, poland said.  but it is definitely better than the alternative of nomask  	
i am a masters of mathematics student in asia and i wrote to some professors for ph d position in number theory. one of the professors in france said yes to me but he said that i should look for other sources of funding as his university did not had phd funding at that time. there is one scholarship foundation in my country where i was thinking of applying as a potential candidate. but the conditions are that i should have a written appropval from my prospective guide.   in between i began preparing for my mid term exams and then appearing for them and masters dissertation viva . as i got spare time, the covid-19 outbreak spread. it is not to worry about here but i came to know through news that it is very serious in france and whole europe. also, last date for applying to scholarship portal is 31 march and it will not be extended.     so , should i ask to my prospective guide to write a confirmation letter in the middle of covid-19 in his country. does not this show that i am an emotionless person with no etiquette at all who does not even care about in what situation my prospective guide, his family and his colleagues are     answer it is fine to ask. life goes on as best we can manage. the situation is worldwide, of course, and we do not yet see the end of it.   in a letter, you could, if you wish, say you are sorry if the request is coming at a bad time and that you understand the global situation.   you may not be able to get a reply in time, of course, or at all. but there is no problem asking. there is only a week left.   and note that people will want to start up as normal again as soon as the situation allows. things may be delayed.  	
i have two male cats, both are stray which decided to live in my house this past year.  one cat is less than a year, 10 months perhaps, and other is probably older than 2 years, both are not neutered yet.   i want to neuter them, but i am scared with the risks.   i am scared because i had a cat suspected with fip before they came. they have been exposed with the fip cat for 2 months, but they never share litter box.   now the fip cat had been gone for three months already, and the other two cats are still healthy and active. i want them to be neuter, but i am afraid the stress caused by neuter surgery will lead them to develop fip, according to many articles, spaying/neutering is included as stressor that might lead to coronavirus mutation.   since we are in pandemic era of covid-19, is it possible that might be fcov also in outbreak  i have seen another cat near my house that has developed the same nervous system symptom of fip.   i wonder if i should delay or never neuter my cat at all.   i know i might be sounds overstretched and paranoid, but it is true, i am really scared, that is why i put the question here.   i live in a country where testing body titer of certain virus in cat is available for public due to the lack of development of veterinary  answer even if your cat is infected with fip, the neutering is safe to do. i have had this done to a feral cat i had a couple of years ago  actually it was done at the same time as a tooth was extracted as a result of fip .  i cannot answer how safe it is to spay a female cat that has fip, but i do not think the risk is significantly elevated in female cats.  cats can get a number of coronaviruses, but covid-19 is not one of the ones that can infect cats or dogs.  this question is related to the corona part of your question: cat health consideration vs coronavirus  neutering a cat is a simple and easy operation that causes very little stress for the cat and your cat will not need any special care after this have been done. 	
i am about to buy an apartment  in a major city in central europe  to live in, mostly with borrowed capital  around 80  . the price was set before the financial crisis due to the corona virus started. should i change my plans  is there any possibility of saying whether the crisis also had an impact on the real estate prices so far  my personal situation is stable in the sense that my job is rather safe despite the crisis. should i continue to buy the apartment as planned   note: i am aware that the future cannot be predicted, what i want to find out is the following: since the price for  my  apartment was set before the corona crisis started, is there already any evidence that the real estate prices in major cities in central europe have taken a hit  i.e. i am not asking about the future development but rather about a comparison of the situation before the corona crisis to the present situation.  it would also be interesting whether in the past the stock market was correlated with the real estate prices, particularly during / after crises.  answer it is unlikely that you would be able to have firm evidence of a sudden drop in price so rapidly. reason for that is that the real estate market is a bit peculiar: transactions take time to put together and it can take a long time for prices to adjust. the real estate market is not nearly as liquid as the stock market, international commodity markets or flower auctions.  when there is a real estate crash, it is common for the number of transactions to drop while buyers and sellers figure out the new price. sellers, especially individuals who have a lot invested in their house, a  possibly underwater  mortgage to pay back, etc. are not ready to lower their asking price at once. some might prefer to sell their house for the same price several years later rather than selling it at its real price right now. buyers who are concerned about paying too much  like yourself  wait for the price to feel more reasonable relative to everything else. those who need to sell a house before buying another one might also be stuck. and nobody knows exactly where the market might clear in between.  but, right now, you would not expect many real estate transactions to be happening in europe. real estate agencies are forced to close in several countries, it is not possible to visit houses, etc. so it is difficult to have any idea of what the current prices are, whether the drop in the number of transactions reflects a drop in the underlying market or is just a side-effect of the current measures to fight the pandemic, or how fast everything is going to go back to normal. 	
quoting wikipedia:    on march 16, 2020, amid an economic crisis caused by the 2020  coronavirus pandemic, for the first time since the inception of the  federal reserve, the fractional reserve requirement was reduced to  0 . 11    now question is why would banks not approve a loan  worst case they get 0   back, but that does not mean that they lost money since credit was created out of thin air so even if every credit defaults they still will not loose any money and anything they get back is pure profit.  note:for simplification this assumes that cost of processing a loan is 0  for bank, we know that realistically they need to pay their employees.  answer   worst case they get 0   back, but that does not mean that they lost money since credit was created out of thin air so even if every credit defaults they still will not loose any money and anything they get back is pure profit.   obviously if a bank never lost money by not getting paid back they would make loans all day long, even ones they knew they would not get paid back on.  but the fact of the matter is, a bank is profits are based on how much they actually make on the loan beyond the cost of the loan itself. the cost of the loan includes the principle which must be paid back. what you refer to as being created  out of thin air  does not mean that money is being created from nothing, it is referring to the fact that the same money can be loaned out multiple times, effectively creating what appears to be actual money several times in excess of the actual amount of money floating around.  another way of looking at it is that a bank generally is not lending its own money. they get the money from other sources and lend it out at higher rates than they pay, and from the excess the pay their expenses and hopefully have some profits left over. so if you put  100 in an account at the bank, the bank can lend that  100 out and earn interest on the money, but at the end of the day, they still owe you  100 on demand whenever you ask for it. the  created out of thin air  comes from the fact that the person who lends the money will need to put the money somewhere, most likely either the same or a different bank, or if they use the money to pay somebody else, that person most likely will deposit the same money in the bank, so ultimately, most of the money they lend out stays in the banking system where it can be lent out again.  the fractional reserve requirement just states how much of that money can be lent out again in the aggregate. a 0  reserve requirement basically means the bank can lend it all out again. it does not mean that they will be able to  only so much money in loans is being sought at any given time  nor does it reduce the fiduciary requirements to make good loans that are likely to get paid back. 	
is it safe to try for a baby in this coronavirus situation  - sam answer we still do not know fully how covid-19 affects pregnant women, but they have been placed into the  high risk  category meaning they should minimise all social contact. we also do not know how long the pandemic will last, and going into hospital for essential scans and check-ups is likely to increase your risk of contracting the virus. you could also find that birthing options are reduced and resources more stretched than usual. however, if you are already pregnant, the important thing is not to panic and to still attend essential hospital appointments.	
in response to the rapidly spreading coronavirus, germany has enacted a general  ban on contact , effective starting today  monday, 2020-03-23 . it prohibits any gathering of more than two people in public and private spaces, except if they live in the same household.  what i am very unclear about is the extent to which certain behaviours are restricted by this regulation, as coverage in news is imho extremely unclear.  for instance, berliner morgenpost says:    gruppen feiernder menschen auf offentlichen platzen, in wohnungen sowie privaten einrichtungen sind angesichts der ernsten lage in unserem land inakzeptabel.   in english:    groups of partying people in public spaces, in apartments, as well as private facilities are inacceptable due to the serious situation in our country.   tagesschau says:    gruppen feiernder menschen - auch im privaten - sind inakzeptabel   in english:    groups of celebrating people - also in private - are inacceptable   and merkur.de says:    ,,gruppen feiernder menschen sind inakzeptabel , erklarten die politiker unisono. jegliche feierlichkeiten sind untersagt, das gilt auch fur geburtstage.   in english:     groups of celebrating people are inacceptable. , the politicians explained in unison. any kind of celebrations are prohibited, this includes birthdays.   now, what does this mean  at least some of the above statements can be interpreted in such a way that it is about the physically close group aspect. that is, celebrations whose participants meet in person in the same place are prohibited.  but then, all of those statements, and definitely the last one, also sound a lot like it is the very activity of celebrating that is prohibited, presumably because the  serious situation in our country  makes such a behaviour unbecoming. thus, it sounds like restrictions similar to the tanzverbot  that declare various overtly joyful activities to be unbecoming and thus unlawful on certain holidays  are in place.  which interpretation is correct    am i violating the newly imposed restrictions if i meet with some of my friends  each of which is sitting at home alone, or at most with their families  via videochat and  celebrate   whatever is meant by that, let is count any joyful or relaxing leisure activity  with them online to brace against the effects of social isolation and cabin fever  and does it mean we cannot let our children have a joyful videochat with their friends whom they already cannot meet in person due to the closure of schools and child nurseries    answer what most of your quotes are based on is this general consensus reached by the federal and state governments on how to proceed. the actually legal implementation happens on the state level in form of decrees. therefore, the quoted texts are not to be taken as legal text, but human-readable1. in particular they are not to be taken painstakingly literal, but context and common sense may be applied2.  the actual decrees are much more specific and clear. for example, let is take the decree for northrhine-westphalia  translation mine :    ss 11 veranstaltungen, versammlungen, gottesdienste, beerdigungen     1  veranstaltungen und versammlungen sind untersagt. ausgenommen sind  ...     ss 12 ansammlungen, aufenthalt im offentlichen raum     1  zusammenkunfte und ansammlungen in der offentlichkeit von mehr als 2 personen sind untersagt. ausgenommen sind  ...         ss 11 events, gatherings, religious services, funerals     1  events and gatherings are forbidden. exempt are  ...     ss 12 gatherings and presence in public space     1  congregations and gatherings of more than two persons in public are forbidden. exempt from this are  ...    most of this is clearly about in-person meetings. the only exception is the term  veranstaltung   event , which could be construed to cover online events. however, in other laws using this term, it clearly refers to in-person events. for example parts of this law governing the number of toilets available at an event do not make any sense for online events.  i see nothing in the decree that would forbid online celebrations. in fact celebrations are not mentioned at all  and are covered by more general terms in the degree, as far as they are in-person .     1 to be fair, the actual legal texts are not that bad in terms in human readability either. 2 mind that i do not wish to accuse you of lacking common sense here. after all the consensus dissonating with your common sense made you ask this question.  	
i made a non-refundable hotel room booking through the hotel website. the hotel is located in the netherlands.  two days ago, a hotel manager informed me that they close the hotel for a certain period that included the period of my stay due to the coronavirus, and that is why they were forced to move my reservation to another date. however, i do not want to move my reservation and would like to get the money back because i did not cancel my reservation, so i informed the hotel about it. the hotel, however, states that they are forced to move my reservation to another date as i made a non-refundable booking.  i checked the official website of the government of the netherlands as was advised here and the rules of the hotel on their website but have not found anything on this matter. the rules, however, are on dutch, so i could misunderstand or skip something  i do not speak dutch at all . as far as i understand the situation based on john is question and answers, i am entitled to a refund. are there some documents that i can cite to the hotel to get a refund   p.s. my sister booked the same hotel for the same dates  non-refundable hotel room booking as well  but through booking. she was able to get a refund after several e-mails. however, she made the booking from russia  the netherlands deny the entry for foreigners having a tourist visa , while i did it from germany where i have permanent residency.  answer did you contact them   they try to move the bookings, so that they have the money  liquidity  to pay employers. they could be in trouble if all clients will ask refund  there could ask government for help .  but you booking is a contract, so they are required to fulfill the contract on the data you both agreed, or they must refund you. just they try  maybe with a better offer  to keep booking  and money  for a later period.  the website booking.com does not get money from you  you will pay the hotel , so they have no really interest to have the  move booking  default.  so try to contact them, and think: do you want to book in a later date  in that case you may try to get a very good offer. but they must refund you.  the last step, it is to contact your credit card, and get the money back from them, because you were charged a service they will not offer you. 	
i am trying to travel to austria from brussels by train, and have conflicting information on the status of cancellations due to covid-19.  according to eurail,  all rail services from germany to austria are cancelled until further notice  http://www.eurail.com/en/help/travel-disruptions/coronavirus-update  yet, deutsche bahn and the notrainline.eu  both allow me to book high-speed ice trains across the border, just not the nightjet trains. there are notices saying that there are delays/reduced services expected at the border, but it is not impossible to book like it is for other trains.  my questions:   does this mean that it is still possible to take the high-speed ice trains  if not, is there any other way that it is permitted to travel over the german border to austria  e.g. by bus, coach or taxi   unfortunately driving is not an option.   answer the official website of deutsche bahn lists the current interruptions due to corona  only in german, trying to change the language to english took me back to the main page :   http://www.bahn.de/p/view/service/aktuell/index.shtml  according to this site, several trains between germany and austria have been cancelled, including the nightjet, but i assume that other trains are still running. since the site does not mention ice trains between germany and austria, i assume they are still running.  in case the trains stop running before you make it to austria: if you are eligible to enter austria, nothing should stop you from entering by taxi  or, taking a taxi to the german side of the border, crossing the border by foot, ordering another taxi to pick you up at the austrian side of the border  - but depending on how close to the border you can get by train this can be quite expensive.   i would not count on buses or coaches: they have never been quite as popular as trains, and the one company that offered  more or less  regular coach services - flixbus - stopped operations tonight due to corona.  	
how old was the youngest person to die from the virus  answer a study of more than 72,000 cases in mainland china found that at least one person between ten and 19 years of age had died, but no one younger than ten had died. a subsequent study in the journal pediatrics found that a 14-year-old boy from china died in february after contracting the coronavirus.    it was not immediately clear if anyone younger had died elsewhere in the world.    by comparison, at least 155 children in the u.s. have died after contracting the flu so far this flu season, according to the cdc.	
i want to inquire if cpap devices can act as low performance ventilators, if they are connected to an oxygen source as well.  i am asking this question in regards to the covid-19 pandemic. there are only two websites which cover this in the entire web. one of them only suggests that cpap devices may increase the risk of spreading. the other one notes similarities between these devices. due to the lack of discussion reachable via google, even if the answer is  no , it might help many people.  i am looking for   scientific publications conventions used in field hospitals/healthcare your professional educated guess   in this order. please include which category your answer falls into.  answer the software is very different. and the capabilities of the machine. the monitoring parameters within ventilators are much more sensitive to pressure and volume than cpap or bipap machines. below are two pages from the manufacturer with setting capabilities for a bipap and a ventilator.  http://www.usa.philips.com/c-p/hh1460 00/dreamstation-cpap-with-humidifier  http://www.usa.philips.com/healthcare/product/hcnoctn96/respironics-v60-non-invasive-ventilator/specifications 	
in light of the covid-19 crisis, my country is banks have seen their shares  prices drop. last week, the banks announced that they will doing a share buyback, and this week, the prices of the shares have increased...  is there any reason why the banks are buying their own shares at a crisis like this    answer assume there is a corporation that makes spoons, with  10m in cash. its single factory is already pumping out as many spoons as it can. there is also no need to open a new factory, because our market research team has determined that no one will buy the new spoons from the new factory. our r amp d team does not know how to make anything but spoons.  so, what does the company do with the cash  it could  1  sit on it, and earn basically nothing. or it could  2  invest it in something completely unrelated to the spoon business. or, it could  3  send it back to the shareholders. let is look at each option:   1  if the company just keeps the cash in the bank account, then it will earn basically no interest, and the investors who own shares in the corporation will be unhappy to get such little returns on corporate assets. if they wanted to have a low-risk cash portfolio, they would do that with their own money, they would not want their spoon-making-investment to make that decision for them.   2  if the company invests in non-spoon related things, then perhaps it will get into trouble by making foolish business decisions. buying a fork-making factory could lead to trouble - why what if our spoon scientists forget to make the tines, and just makes the whole thing rounded, based on what worked for them in spoon making   again, if a company steps outside of its area of expertise, it is deciding, on behalf of its shareholders, to diversify its portfolio. but the shareholders could make that decision themselves, and does not necessarily want the corporation to make this decision. note that some companies do successfully diversify, but it is typically part of an overarching plan that makes sense together, or else it often fails.   3  if the company returns the cash to the shareholders they can decide for themselves what to do with the cash. some will invest in low-risk things like government bonds or simple savings accounts earning minimal interest. some will invest in competing spoon-makers, and some might invest in new fork-making ventures. but the decision on how to invest goes back to the individual shareholders.  buying back stock is just one way to get money back to shareholders. the other common way would be to pay out a dividend. in financial theory, there are basically 3 differences between a share buy-back and a dividend:  a  a buyback is optional, meaning only the shareholders looking to sell their shares, will have shares bought by the company   b  a buyback happens relative to the current share price in the market, meaning that part of the decision to make a buyback could be based on whether the company believes itself to be undervalued  and  c  the tax implications are different  in general, most countries tax capital gains on selling your shares, at a lower rate than corporate dividends .  so, why would a bank do a share buyback right now  probably because interest rates are at a historic low, meaning that the bank has a limited ability to invest its capital to earn what it feels are good returns. so instead, it is leaving the choice to its shareholders how to invest - and because the bank probably feels its shares are undervalued, it is preferential to do this instead of paying a dividend. for the shareholders who remain in the company, the increase in share price is an indication that the decision made by the bank was one that benefited them.  quick note on the political aspect hinted at here: the main reason it is contentious to do a share buy-back in times like this, is that a government could give a stimulus package to a business, with the goal of having that business invest in itself, hire workers, etc.  if instead of investing in itself it just pays out the cash to shareholders, the government has effectively  bailed out  the relatively wealthy individuals who own shares, rather than the working class who they were attempting to get jobs for. 	
for example, if i am trading a sp500 etf on the nyse, the stock exchange opens at 3:30pm cet. due to the time shift, the stock exchanges in the eu open at 9am cet, meaning i can already gather chart information from sp500 etfs that are traded here.   real life example: the sp500 etf  even though it is the one traded on an eu stock exchange  gains a lot of value again after the corona virus crash. is it practically possible to use this information to my advantage by immediately buying shares at the nyse when it opens later  i know that technically the charts are not connected with each other as each stock exchange trades it is own shares but in reality they are still correlating.   to be fair, due to the duration of an order i think it would not be possible to take advantage of this small marge, but what about big banks with higher volume and high speed trading   answer   real life example: the sp500 etf  even though it is the one traded on an eu stock exchange  gains a lot of value again after the corona virus crash. is it practically possible to use this information to my advantage by immediately buying shares at the nyse when it opens later    no. the simple reason why is that even if you buy immediately when the market opens, that is still too late.  as an example, imagine that there is a single etf which trades both in the united states  from 9:30 am to 4:00 pm us eastern time  and in great britain  from 4:30 am to 11:00 am us eastern time .  now let is imagine that it is 4:30 am eastern, and the etf begins trading at  80. however, the price of the etf increases over the course of the day, so that by 9:25 am eastern, the price of the etf is  100.  can you take advantage of this by buying shares of the etf in the united states immediately upon open  no, because when it starts trading in the united states, it will start trading at about  100, not at  80. you will be paying  100 for shares worth  100, which is, of course, a profit of  0.  maybe you are thinking that when the market opens, the opening price is the same as the previous day is closing price. this is not the case. the market will not open at  80 and then immediately rise to  100  it will simply open at  100. 	
according to this article, chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine could be effective treatments for covid-19.    assuming the drugs are well tolerated in clinical trials and seem effective at treating covid-19, the fda will take measures to increase the nation is supply, according to hahn.   assuming best case scenario, when could these drugs be made widely available to treat the disease  by  when,  i mean how long is it likely to take   answer let is not get ahead of ourselves here.. chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine  and possibly in concert with azithromycin  have been touted over the past few days as a possible treatment regimen.  and there is some cause for that - the antiviral properties of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine in vitro are broad and it is been trialed against various things  hiv, ebola etc , however this has not always transferred particularly well into an actual treatment. and there is some research suggesting that it can successfully battle sars-cov-2 in vitro too. however, killing something in a petri dish is one thing, treating a disease in a human is another.  there has been some preliminary trials done - i believe there is been some fairly non-specific vagueness about it being promising when used in china and there is a relatively new study that is come from gautret et al in france.  the gautret et al paper looks promising - on the surface. it seems to suggest that treating people with a combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin looks great:    unfortunately though it is not that simple.. first up we are not talking about a great number of people here. the entire study comprised 42 patients  16 of which were the control , which is not a huge sample size. and any patients who were on the treatment who got worse were removed from the analysis:    six hydroxychloroquine-treated patients were lost in follow-up during the survey because of early cessation of treatment. reasons are as follows: three patients were transferred to intensive care unit, including one transferred on day2 post-inclusion who was pcr-positive on day1, one transferred on day3 post-inclusion who was pcr-positive on days1-2 and one transferred on day4 post-inclusion who was pcr- positive on day1 and day3  one patient died on day3 post inclusion and was pcr-negative on day2  one patient decided to leave the hospital on day3 post-inclusion and was pcr-negative on days1-2  finally, one patient stopped the treatment on day3 post-inclusion because of nausea and was pcr-positive on days1-2-3.    so the picture is not quite as rosy as the graph makes it look. some people on this treatment still got worse, one died.  it get is even shonkier  technical term  when you look at the large swathes of control patients who did not have the pcr test done for viral loads:    they effectively only properly measured the viral loads for 4 of the 16 control patients, so trying to compare the groups is verging on meaningless.  so before we look at  when  they will be widely available to treat sars-cov-2 i would be more concerned with answering whether they should be used to treat it. hydroxychloroquine is not exactly harmless - while less toxic to humans than chloroquine, it is not something to give lightly, it can have immunosuppressant effects, and in sufficient dosages can result in potentially lethal cardiotoxicity.  it may yet prove to be an effective treatment - and the who is trialing it  along with other potential treatments  as part of their mega-trial solidarity, but let is not get too excited just yet. 	
i am applying to do a master is thesis at a german research institute. the institute is website encourages applicants to contact the researchers directly  and does not give more information about the application process . i have been wondering whether initiating this contact over phone could be a way to make a strong first impression, and would make it less likely that my subsequent application mail will disappear in their inbox. the goal of the phone call would be to ask whether their group has an open spot for a master is student etc. on the other hand, i am worried i would be breaking some social code by making such direct contact with someone  higher up in the hierarchy , or that they would think i am wasting their time by calling in person.   so, my question is: would it be appropriate to phone a researcher/academic with such inquiries   i realize this will depend on the person being called, but i think it is still possible to answer whether this is generally acceptable within cultural norms.   note: many, but not all, of the researchers list a phone number on the institute is homepage.  answer i do not appreciate being called  it imposes your time schedule on me. others differ. however, i suspect that email is your safest bet.  the practical problem is that many universities in germany have been closed due to covid-19, and the numbers listed will be the work numbers. either you are calling an empty office, or your call is forwarded to the persons home adress, which may not be what you want.   massimoortolano makes a good point in emphasizing the unannounced part of a phone call. you could sent an email to make an appointment. i would be fine with that. 	
cnbc reported that:     dan  patrick, the texas lieutenant governor, said monday on fox news,  as a senior citizen, are you willing to take a chance on your survival in exchange for keeping the america that all america loves for your children and grandchildren  and if that is the exchange, i am all in.    apparently on the same show another fairly high profile us politician said    sen. john kennedy  r-la : for a small segment of our population, it is true, the coronavirus can kill you. for a small segment.    but you know what else can kill you  poverty. hunger. losing the entire economy.    and we need to stop thinking about the next election and try to think a little more about the next generation and what we leave to them, which is going to be the little end of nothing if we let this economy collapse.   according to cnn  which alas does not link to the actual polls they mention :    the often-dismissive messaging from fox news hosts was notable, given that the viewers who make up the network is audience skew older and are thus more vulnerable to the disease.    polls from both gallup and pew research revealed that republicans -- who are largely distrustful of mainstream news organizations and primarily turn to fox news and other right-wing sources for information on current events -- were much less likely to take the risks of the coronavirus as seriously as their democratic counterparts.   of course, this being a rather emotionally charged judgement, it probably matters a lot how one phrases such a question/choice. still, i want to know if there any surveys in the us on how much the public sees the mortality risk posed by covid-19  which as we know is most elevated for the elderly  as acceptable in balance with preserving the  american way of life ,  keeping america great , or some other equivalently formulated socioeconomic normality  for the us      before i get anymore downvotes, please note that i am not endorsing those views... but they do exist in various shapes, e.g.    as fears of covid-19 spread, so too have ageist messages suggesting that the coronavirus is a disease of the old, with internet memes referring to the virus as a  boomer remover.     on the less frivolous side, the nyt has an article  sub titled:  shutdown spotlights economic cost of saving lives. president trump and others have asked if halting normal life and commerce to fight the coronavirus is worth the cost. here is how economists figure it.  ...      economists should be doing this cost-benefit analysis,  said walter scheidel, an economic historian at stanford university.  why is nobody putting some numbers on the economic costs of a monthlong or a yearlong shutdown against the lives saved  the whole discipline is well equipped for it. but there is some reluctance for people to stick their neck out.     for more on economics aspects of the crisis, see this econ se question.   so i think i am well justified in asking this question, i.e. how widespread such views might be, especially when it comes to making a  hard  choice.  answer in the most recent polls i found  and there are a helluva lot of polls on coronavirus in the us  from march 26:    about seven-in-ten adults  71   say that to address the coronavirus, it is necessary to require most businesses other than grocery stores or pharmacies to close. a larger share of democrats and democratic-leaning independents  81   than republicans and gop leaners  61   view this requirement as necessary.   so most are  now  approving of not-business-as-usual measures to combat the epidemic. actually, a bit later, this pew poll details the public response to a few more specific measures, although this is aftery had been anounced/implemented:    as some  polling  pundits predicted a week ago after commenting on those old-by-now polls  of march 20 or so :    pew shows that 59  of democrats and democratic-leaning independents say the  outbreak is a major threat to the health of the u.s. population as a whole,  while only 33  of republicans and republican leaners agree.    it is certainly possible that this significant partisan gap in views of the coronavirus situation will narrow in the weeks ahead. partisans take cues from the statements of their leaders, and trump and other republican politicians initially were publicly skeptical of the significance of the virus, in some instances claiming that it reflected a partisan effort by democrats and  the media  to criticize trump. now, trump and his allies have begun to move away from that previous posture and are at the forefront of proclaiming the seriousness of the crisis. as media observers have noted, this in turn has brought about shifts in the tone of the coverage by fox news, and these shifts may narrow the partisanship gap in the days and weeks to come if rank-and-file republicans follow the cues given by their favored thought leaders.  	
what do we know about the environmental limits for ncov to survive outside the body  for example, in:    in open air on surfaces in water   what are the limits for temperature, humidity and air pressure, where the virus, can or cannot survive   answer because  any  coronavirus is so dangerous, much research have been done on viruses with similar properties. they are called  surrogates . because ncov is new, we do not have any studies, so we need to estimate it is behavior from previously studied similar viruses.  here:  rh   relative humidity.  tr   room temperature tgev   transmissible gastroenteritis  surrogate  mhv   mouse hepatitis  surrogate    viral survival for the tgev/mhv surrogate:   on stainless steel: 4degc   20  rh: 28 days in water/sewage  tgev : 25degc: 22 days in water/sewage  mhv : 25degc: 17 days contaminated water is a potential vehicle for exposure if aerosols are generated   for airborne human coronavirus 229e  hcv/229e :   optimal survival: 6degc   50  rh:  poor  survival: 20degc    high  relative humidity  rh      poor  in terms of 20degc but varying rh.    for sars cov-p9:   serum: 96 h   4 days sputum  amp  feces: 96 h   4 days urine: 72 h   3 days   for sars-cov  gvu6109 :   in diarrheal stool  at low ph : 4 days in respiratory/air droplets:  7 days   20degc  tr  in respiratory/air droplets:  20 days   4degc      the main route of transmission of sars cov infection is presumed to be respiratory droplets. however the virus is also detectable in other body fluids and excreta. the stability of the virus at different temperatures and relative humidity on smooth surfaces were studied. the dried virus on smooth surfaces retained its viability for over 5 days at temperatures of 22-25degc and relative humidity of 40-50 , that is, typical air-conditioned environments. however, virus viability was rapidly lost   3 log10  at higher temperatures and higher relative humidity  e.g., 38degc, and relative humidity of  95  .      we and others have reported that infectivity of sars cov  sars coronavirus  was lost after heating at 56degc for 15 minutes but that it was stable for at least 2 days following drying on plastic.      update: 2020-03-13  from  7 :      we found that viable virus could be detected in aerosols up to 3 hours   post aerosolization, up to 4 hours on copper, up to 24 hours on   cardboard and up to 2-3 days on plastic and stainless steel. hcov-19 and   sars-cov-1 exhibited similar half-lives in aerosols, with median   estimates around 2.7 hours. both viruses show relatively long viability   on stainless steel and polypropylene compared to copper or cardboard:   the median half-life estimate for hcov-19 is around 13 hours on steel   and around 16 hours on polypropylene. our results indicate that aerosol   and fomite transmission of hcov-19 is plausible, as the virus can remain   viable in aerosols for multiple hours and on surfaces up to days.    for sars-cov-2: experiments were performed   40  rh and 21-23degc.   copper  cu : 4 hours stainless  fe : 48 hours  2 days  cardboard: 24 hours  plastic: 72 hours  3 days  sars-cov-2 is most stable on plastic and stainless steel.   references:    1  20xx http://aem.asm.org/content/76/9/2712.short  2  1985 http://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/jgv/10.1099/0022-1317-66-12-2743  3  2005 http://academic.oup.com/cid/article/41/7/e67/310340  4  2009 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/s0043135409000785  5  2010 http://www.hindawi.com/journals/av/2011/734690/  6  2003 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14631830   7  2020 aerosol and surface stability of hcov-19  sars-cov-2  compared to sars-cov-1  	
i am having trouble sleeping. any tips  answer while there is no single trick that works for everyone, one thing you can  try now to improve your sleep  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/style/self- care/sleep-tips-benefits-coronavirus.html  is setting up a consistent schedule. that means sticking to a regular bedtime and wake time. try to go 90 minutes without any screen time before bed -- that means no emails, social media or watching t.v. you can also take baby steps, beginning with 15 minutes, then working your way up. working out, whether that means taking a socially distant walk or doing an at- home routine, can also help tire you out and dispel extra nervous energy. taking a warm shower or bath 90 minutes before lights out may also help prime you for a better night is sleep. be sure to nix the coffee, alcohol and any eating before bed -- these things do not promote quality rest. finally,  manage your anxiety  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/style/self-care/sleep-tips- benefits-coronavirus.html  through meditation, deep breathing techniques and, in some cases, medication. if your anxiety is debilitating, seek out a mental health professional or other clinical mental health services.	
i am currently in a job in the us  on stem opt . i had a postdoc offer from a large us university that was supposed to start april 16. i signed an offer letter for a two year contract. we were in the process of deciding which visa to apply for  h1/j1 .   today i got an email from the pi  hr copied  saying she would like to put the position on hold until things settle down. i asked for a clarification on what  on hold  meant and whether the offer letter was still valid. the hr replied this  pi copied :    as for the offer letter you signed  due to redacted is current  situation  please consider it void until future notice.    professor  redacted  will contact you if you are still being considered  for the position.   this is the last communication i had with the hr or the pi.  what does this mean  since i have the signed offer, when things do settle down, is the university legally obligated to offer the position back to me before anyone else  or the university is formally rescinding the offer and i should just move on  can they do that    edit: some answers have asked about my eligibility to work in the us. for clarification: i am in the us now, in my current status, i can work in the us till the end of may. if the university applied for an h1b  which is typically approved for non profit , i could stay in the us as long as i did not leave the country  in which case i would have to get a visa stamped . things could have gotten more complicated with j1, so we did not discuss much about that.   answer a signed offer letter is normally a valid contract. usually it is the only contract document. only someone who has read the offer letter can give you a perfect answer to this question.  they have announced their intention to break the contract. that is illegal unless the offer letter says otherwise. moving on is probably your best option.   there are two possibilities:   the university is unable to pay you, so they are forced to do something that could potentially cause them a lot of harm in the form of bad press or litigation. they did this voluntarily or out of incompetence, in which case the university is a bad place to work and you are lucky not to be working there.   in either case, you should look for employment elsewhere. 	
my teenagers are not taking this seriously. any advice  answer coronavirus is not just infecting young people. it is killing young, healthy people as well.   we have reported many stories about young people getting severely sick with or dying from coronavirus.   dimitri mitchell, 18, admits he had a  false sense of security.  but he was later hospitalized with coronavirus and now wants everyone to take it seriously.    i just want to make sure everybody knows that no matter what their age is, it can seriously affect them. and it can seriously mess them up, like it messed me up,  mitchell said.   he started feeling sick on st. patrick is day, with just a small cough.  i thought at first it was just a normal cold. and then it started progressively getting worse,  he said.    four days in, the really bad symptoms started coming along. i started having really bad outbreaks, like sweating, and my eyes were really watery. i was getting warmer and warmer, and i was super fatigued. ... i would start experiencing the worst headaches i have ever felt in my life. they were absolutely horrible.   eventually, the teen had to be hospitalized. his mother said she worried he might  fall asleep and never wake up.    mitchell is now recovering, but still has a cough almost a month later.    i just hope everybody is responsible, because it is nothing to joke about,  he said.  it is a real problem, and i want everybody to make sure they are following social distancing guidelines and the group limits. and just listen to all the rules and precautions and stay up to date with the news and make sure they are informed. 	
how large does a meeting or event need to be in order to be a  mass gathering   answer high profile international sporting events such as the olympics or world cups as well as international religious events such as the hajj count as mass gatherings. however, lower profile conferences and events can also meet who is definition of a mass gathering. an event counts as a  mass gatherings  if the number of people it brings together is so large that it has the potential to strain the planning and response resources of the health system in the community where it takes place. you need to consider the location and duration of the event as well as the number of participants. for example, if the event takes place over several days in a small island state where the capacity of the health system is quite limited then even an event with just a few thousand participants could place a big strain on the health system and then be considered a  mass gathering  event. conversely, if the event is held in a big city in a country with a large, well-resourced health system and lasts just a few hours, the event may not constitute a  mass gathering  event.	
how long can coronavirus survive on a surface  answer a study of previous coronaviruses found human coronaviruses could theoretically last on surfaces at room temperature for up to nine days.  that length of time could depend on:  the type of surface, because viruses survive on shiny, hard surfaces longer than soft ones  whether it is exposed to sunlight, because uv radiation kills viruses  and temperature and humidity, because viruses last longer at lower temperatures and lower humidity.	
context  while no government wants there to be a pandemic, and would certainly prefer  hope  for it to just go away, they can only downplay it for a short time before it overwhelms the population and they must address it from a significantly weaker position than if they had acted decisively at the beginning.  in the smartphone era, information propagates instantly through informal networks  facebook, wechat, stackexchange, etc.  and is difficult to suppress.  questions  after witnessing the covid epidemic and failure to contain it in asia, it spread to europe and was poised to infect the west. why did western hemisphere leaders downplay the pandemic is threat instead of acknowledging the problem and communicating what would be done to reverse the issue  what is the political incentive for deferring acknowledgement and action   answer in hindsight it is clear that many governments should have taken the risk of a covid19 pandemic much more seriously, but it is not that easy to anticipate the reach and intensity of the epidemic before it happens. there have been other serious threats before for which the containment strategy proved sufficient, and if a government allocates resources  for instance massive purchases of masks and ventilators  which end up wasted they are going to be criticized as well.   this article in the guardian argues that most european countries were not as well prepared as some asian countries because:   there was no recent experience of a serious epidemic in the country, causing leaders to subconsciously underestimate the seriousness of the threat. there is a potential political cost for a government if they invest resources by precaution and the risk does not materialize:     the challenge faced by government is whether and when to act on a health threat. if you act swiftly and the outbreak is not as bad as  feared, then government gets criticised for overreacting. if you  adopt a wait-and-see approach and move too slowly, then government  gets criticised for underreacting,  says steve taylor, professor at  the university of british columbia and author of the psychology of  pandemics.   as an example, during the 2009 h1n1 flu pandemic roselyne bachelot was minister of health in the french government. she purchased 94 million vaccines, but only a small proportion turned out to be actually used. as a result she was widely criticized for wasting public money. i assume that there are other examples of this kind, where a politician loses some political points because they made a safe but costly decision.   it seems that when an epidemic threat presents itself a government must make a call between:   taking the threat seriously and therefore mobilizing important resources for an overall unlikely epidemic crisis, with a high risk to appear as overreacting and wasting public money. taking minimal conservative measures, which is unlikely to be sufficient if the crisis materializes. however this will likely appear as the  normal  choice to make, since nobody could objectively have anticipated the intensity of the crisis.   note: this answer is made of recycled material from a closed question of mine. 	
this is the blast tree of the latest coronavirus out of china. it seems strange that there is so much divergence from all the other coronaviruses. is this expected of new diseases     answer the evolutionary related group  clade  of betacoronaviruses you have identified share an amino acid homology of 85  and include sars. i know this from the underlying tree published on biorxiv of a broader group of betacoronaviruses, i.e. your data is a defined subset of the betacoronaviruses which all share a unique, single common ancester.  lets call this group the sars clade.  you have performed a nucleotide blast and asked ncbi to produce a nj tree using 2019-ncov as the reference. i can tell this by the colour coding and the scale bar at the bottom right hand corner shows the genetic distance involved is reasonably larger than 15  divergence by amino acid data. the scale bar represents the number of mutations per nucleotide.   in summary, your tree is essentially a subset of the broader genetic diversity of the one published, but there is there is a rooting issue.   in your tree, the majority of sequences are from the 2002 sars epidemic and the virtually zero genetic distance between them is simply because it is a rapidly transmitted outbreak. i did not realize that sars has two independent origins both initially from bats. this is quite scary.    2019-ncov is an outgroup within the isars clade  hence it appears at the other side of the tree, i.e. they share a more distant common ancestor however 2019-ncov is not the most distant common ancester within this subset of the betacoronaviruses, i.e. sars clade, this belongs to the two bat viruses zc45 and zx21. the program has made a likely rooting error  below . again the blast omitted the majority of the betacoronaviruses, for example mers   rooting issue the reason i suggest there is a rooting error is because the biorxiv tree using a broad sample of the betacoronaviruses placed the bat strains zc45 and zx21 as outgroups to the sars clade and 2019-ncov was immediately within that, so in this definition 2019-ncov is an  ingroup  within the sars clade, whereas your tree it is an  outgroup . it not a huge issue, but the location of the  root  is determined by the common ancester above it  sequences with  lt 85  homology  and in your tree those have been omitted.   generally, i like the analysis otherwise and gives an insight into sars that i had not previosly been aware of. 	
where should i get my information about the virus  answer public health officials are increasingly worried about misinformation that seems to accompany every outbreak, fueled by social media and inflammatory rhetoric. if you hear a rumor about the virus, check it out with reputable sources -- the cdc, state health agencies and the who all have websites with the most up-to-date information about the virus and its spread. increasingly, those agencies also have fact-checking sections on their websites, aimed at combating misinformation. one of the most troubling rumors that often spreads alongside outbreaks is who exactly has the disease -- something that can lead to racial and ethnic profiling. nirav shah, director of the maine center for disease control and prevention, said it is important to separate the disease from the person suffering from the disease. no ethnic group is more or less susceptible to the coronavirus.  my concern is that fear and misinformation will spread much faster than this virus will,  shah said in an interview wednesday. bottom line: if you hear what sounds like unrealistic information, check it out before you pass it around social media.	
coronavirus has forced the french government to postpone the second round of local elections:    france will postpone the second round of mayoral elections to june 21 due to the coronavirus outbreak, two political sources told reuters on monday.    sources also said that the results of first round of local elections on sunday would remain valid.   however, nobody really knows how long sars-cov-2 will be a major issue. theoretically, the desired scenario implies mitigating the infections over a large period of time to allow the medical system to cope with the patients.   i am wondering if the second round can be postponed indefinitely.  question: is there a limit to how long the second round of french mayoral elections can be postponed   answer there is no limit because there is also no provision for that. article l56 of the code electoral even provides that:    en cas de deuxieme tour de scrutin, il y est procede le dimanche suivant le premier tour.   in other words, any run-off has to take place the week after the first round of voting.  but, absent any constitutional provision to the contrary, anything and everything that is defined in a statute can in principle be undone by the parliament. postponing the run-off at the last minute is a very ad hoc solution, not something that would be part of a well-defined procedure.  at this point, the government rescinded the decret calling the election and the parliament  both chambers  adopted a statute dealing with several issues arising from this  what to do with the results, etc.  in fact, that statute also extends the term of all town councils that have not been replaced, as it could otherwise be deemed to expire.  it also provides that before setting a new date the government must publish the conclusions of its advisory scientific committee and that if it turns out to be impossible to organise the run-off in june then the election would be completely cancelled and the process should be restarted from scratch  new candidates, new ballots, new campaign, etc.   obviously, from a purely legal point of view, all these dispositions are also liable to be changed at any time should the parliament agree to do so. 	
in today is press conference  3/19/2020  the president is touting the fda is approval of using  for example  an anti-malarial as a treatment for covid-19. this drug has been in widespread use and has been approved by the fda for years. however, the fda required drug information on this drug does not mention covid-19, so it is use as a pharm for covid-19 would be considered off-label.   physicians commonly order these off-label applications, however they assume the risk and liability by ordering off-label pharms for their patients.  considering today is assertion that fda has now approved certain pharms, does it follow that these prescriptions are no longer  off-label , but rather are indicated uses.   answer   considering today is assertion that fda has now approved certain pharms, does it follow that these prescriptions are no longer  off-label , but rather are indicated uses    no. the president is not the fda, and the president is statements about fda actions are not fda actions. the only official source of information about drug approvals is the fda is list of approved drugs. see 21 cfr 314.3:    listed drug is a new drug product that has been approved under section 505 c  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act for safety and effectiveness or under section 505 j  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, which has not been withdrawn or suspended under section 505 e  1  through  5  or section 505 j  6  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, and which has not been withdrawn from sale for what fda has determined are reasons of safety or effectiveness. listed drug status is evidenced by the drug product is identification in the current edition of fda is  approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations   the list  as an approved drug. a drug product is deemed to be a listed drug on the date of approval for the nda or anda for that drug product.  	
i would like to know if it is likely that the united states government may have to reduce social security payments for the remainder of this year to help fund economic stimulus packages to help bail out small businesses and big companies like boeing.  or are social security payments guaranteed not to go down unless congress introduces a new bill to do so and then has to vote on this bill and then send it to the president for signing in order to enact this ss payment reduction   answer there has been zero talk about cutting social security payments to people currently receiving payments.  there has been talk about cutting the taxes funding the social security system. the idea would be to make up the shortfall due to a tax cut by sending money from the general fund into the social security system. that plan has problems due to unemployed people not having to pay into the social security system, so a tax cut would not put money into their pocket. they might need money to pay rent and buy food.  a change to the formulas used to determine payments for people currently receiving payments would be a big deal and would not be done to counteract a short term crisis.  	
should i wear a mask to protect myself  answer only wear a mask if you are ill with covid-19 symptoms  especially coughing  or looking after someone who may have covid-19. disposable face mask can only be used once. if you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. there is a world-wide shortage of masks, so who urges people to use masks wisely.who advises rational use of medical masks to avoid unnecessary wastage of precious resources and mis-use of masks  see advice on the use of masks . the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing. seebasic protective measures against the new coronavirus for more information.	
what is coronavirus  answer coronavirus is a type of virus that causes disease in animals. often the symptoms of the virus are those of the common cold. covid-19 is a strain of coronavirus that is new to humans, hence it is called a novel  or new  virus.	
current statistics on number of cases will always be a few days behind reality due to the time between infection and going to get tested, asymptomatic people, etc. but why not take a random sample of a few thousand people people, and test all of them to see how many of them have the virus  would that not give us a picture of the proportion of people who have the virus   answer italy has 60 million people and around 70 thousand  known  cases. that is barely more than 1 in 1000 prevalence. for most countries it is less than this. so, you would need a huge sample for a good estimate. and those tests/resources are better deployed where suspected cases are, for the time being.  and sensible or not, i have heard this from a colleague, and it is confirmed by the news that romania is capital bucharest plans to randomly test a sample of 10,500 people to determine the extent of the virus spread over there.    manager of the  matei bals  infectious diseases institute adrian streinu-cercel has announced that a pilot project for testing 10,500 persons for the novel coronavirus will start in bucharest within a scientific study to detect those infected with sars cov-2 virus, from the desire to thus prevent the severe forms of illness.    streinu-cercel mentioned that, for a population of approximately 2 million inhabitants, the testing of 9,558 persons is necessary, with a correction of 10  being applied to this number. he also stated that the sample can be resized along the way. in this regard, streinu-cercel referred to the recommendations of the world health organization, which asked that testing be conducted to detect covid 19. the manager of the  matei bals  institute showed that it is necessary to test the medical staff and patients, but also the population, in order to know if  it is healthy, if it is currently infected or went through the infection  with this virus, these three pieces of information completely changing how this pandemic is approached in the near future.  ...     streinu-cercel underscored that, in lack of screening, the mild forms can go undetected, generating subsequent forms of severe infections. he also mentioned that the minister of health approved this project and stressed that this is a study with  scientific value,  not a simple testing. at the same time, he mentioned that in bucharest there are 188 people diagnosed positively.   note that  200 cases in 2m is 1:10,000.  ha, ha, the more amusing part is that this turned out to be  fake news   but it is actually informative to read the  retraction/information  as to why they are not actually doing such a study  obviously: insufficient testing capacity for the proposed sample.     after the manager of the  matei bals  institute for infectious diseases, adrian streinu-cercel and bucharest mayor gabriela firea had announced on thursday that 10,514 people from 5 different age groups in bucharest will be tested for the novel coronavirus, pm ludovic orban reacted and said this is not possible.     we cannot establish the people to be tested randomly. selecting 10,000 are just stories, there is a priority list for testing, it depends on how the situation and the testing capacity are developing,  the pm told a conference at the health ministry is hqs.    orban said that the medical staff and those targeted by the epidemiological inquiries are qualifying for testing first, adding that  romania has not been ready and the testing capacity has been limited .    the premier said that  the testing capacity in romania will increase up to 2,000 next week  and will gradually rise, but to select 10,000 people  are just stories , the more the death toll has been low in romania.   in older news i see that india conducted a random test on 500 of their citizens. rather predictably, they all came out negative.  by the way, if what you want to find out are the proportion of asymptomatic cases, there are some studies  albeit on fairly contained populations  that may have an answer to that, e.g. one on the diamond princess  the cruise ship quarantined off japan :     overall:  our estimated asymptomatic proportion is at 17.9   95 cri: 15.5-20.2  , which overlaps with a recently derived estimate of 33.3   95  confidence interval: 8.3-58.3   from data of japanese citizens evacuated from wuhan.     caveat:  considering that most of the passengers were 60 years and older, the nature of the age distribution may lead to underestimation if older individuals tend to experience more symptoms.    from a 2nd study on the diamond princess, it is informative to read the testing strategy/order:    overall 3,063 pcr tests were performed among  the 3,711  passengers and crew members. testing started among the elderly passengers, descending by age.  	
information about  simple  mask wearing  concerning covid19  is a complete mystery to me. on several official places it is not recommended for a person without symptoms to wear a mask. for example:   http://youtu.be/ded axffjoq  time 0:20   or here:  http://www.ucsfhealth.org/education/should-i-wear-a-mask-to-protect-against-the-coronavirus  however no explanation is given - which makes me wonder  and even angry . i think everybody should wear a mask because:   many persons feel ashamed wearing it, even those with symptoms. if everybody wears it, they do not feel ashamed and wear it. as far as i know, one is  wrt covid19  contagious before developing symptoms. so if everybody wears the mask also these people do.   the two above points act as a collective protection.   simple mask certainly will lower  getting / spreading illness  probability. of course the  holes   in a simple mask  are too big to prevent completely virus to enter  or get out when coughing , but it lowers probability  even if it lowers the transmission probability by e.g. 5 , it might be a lot. as a hypothetical example: it might reduce r0 from 1.02 to 0.97 and so stop the virus spread so fast.   the videos are full of self-contradiction. in the same video  http://youtu.be/ded axffjoq  time 0:50 the lady says i should wear a mask if i am in contact with an infected person... why if it is inefficient   question: what are reasons for not recommending wearing a mask   answer tl dr: please wear a mask    unless your nearby hospitals are out of it, in which case give your masks to them and stay at home     the link you mentioned provides the reason that the cdc likely has in mind  though i agree it does not identify it clearly as the reason :    the worldwide supply of masks is limited. it is critical that we use them appropriately.  i.e., prioritizing them for high-risk people .   thought the cdc is now considering recommending general public wear face coverings in public.   1  compiled different government guidelines on the use of mask. you will see that some of them do recommend wearing a mask whereas others such as the uk mentions that  there is very little evidence of widespread benefit for members of the public . some governments such as the south korean  government even distribute free respiratory masks  2 kf94 per person per week in south korea .    a great summary on the use of fask masks from stanford researcher michael lin, phd-md:        also:   experts increasingly question advice against widespread use of face masks not wearing masks to protect against coronavirus is a  big mistake,  top chinese scientist says  thanks scaaahu for pointing to this article  http://youtu.be/gak7ax5hksu t 895: interview with professor kim woo-joo from korea university guro hospital, urging the importance of wearing masks. wierd -2020-03-30 - it is time to face facts, america: masks work  mirror 1   mirror 2   thanks scaaahu for pointing to this article  http://www.maskssavelives.org/  mirror : contains a lot of details and references on why wearing masks is useful. can the sars-cov-2 virus float in the air for up to 3 hours  is wearing facemasks the reason south korea, japan, singapore and hong kong have more control of covid-19     references:    1  feng, shuo, chen shen, nan xia, wei song, mengzhen fan, and benjamin j. cowling.  rational use of face masks in the covid-19 pandemic.  the lancet respiratory medicine  2020 . http://doi.org/10.1016/s2213-2600 20 30134-x  	
background: my girlfriend is on an f-1 visa for the united states, and is currently located in  and a citizen of  hong kong. she recently was in hungary, and flew to hong kong via helsinki. she has a direct flight from hkg to sfo scheduled to land in the united states over  but only an hour over  exactly 14 days since her plane departed helsinki.  question: in light of the language of the ban  1, section 1  on non-citizens or non-permanent residents entering the united states who have been  physically present within the schengen area during the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the united states,  i believe that she should not have problems with the entry in terms of the current covid-19 related policies, but would like to make sure that i am not missing anything. should i be worried about this  is there an interpretation of  physically present  that could include an international flight  etc..   1  http://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/proclamation-suspension-entry-immigrants-nonimmigrants-certain-additional-persons-pose-risk-transmitting-2019-novel-coronavirus/  answer thank you all very much for your comments and suggestions.  given the uncertainty, i decided to call us customs and border protection  did not even know i could  was only on hold for 3 minutes.  they said that her current plan is just as risky as coming to sfo 15 or 17 days since leaving the schengen area. the remaining risk is just due to the discretionary power of the cbp officer, and the cbp person on the phone said that she had heard of travelers getting turned away more than 14 days after exiting the schengen area because of this discretion. in her words to me,  i just hope she gets a good officer.   the one bit of advice she did give is to print out and provide documentation of travel and the relevant dates, etc., to make the situation clear to the cbp officer approving  or not  entry. 	
how can i hide the who covid-19 banner on youtube     video: http://youtu.be/gak7ax5hksu    brief description of my search/research efforts: searched on google, found nothing.  answer on desktop browsers one way to block this is using the ublock origin extension. right click after installing it, and select  block element . the element you want to block is:     clarify-box  gt  .ytd-watch-flexy.style-scope   from your screenshot, it seems you are browsing youtube using the chrome web-browser, but with  desktop site  enabled, is that right  if you turn that off it should not be displayed 	
this year i had something happen to me twice, which i never witnessed before nor i thought possible: an airline has flights for the legs that i would like to fly on, but if i try to book the whole trip, it only proposes me a more complex trip with an extra leg. in the meanwhile, the desired booking is possible on an ota website.  i presume that this might be because otas have access to more inventory, but this seems weird. the two examples were:  london to yekaterinburg: i flew with british airways   s7. they are partner airlines and s7 can sell me the london-moscow leg of the trip, but s7 was only offering me a more complex trip  something like: london - berlin - moscow - yekaterinburg   london to longyearbyen: i booked a sas trip with layover in oslo  cancelled due to covid19 , but the sas website was only offering me trips like: london - copenhagen - oslo - longyearbyen or london - stockholm - oslo -longyearbyen   in the above cases, i booked from an ota, but i would really prefer to avoid in the future  in one direction, my luggage could not be checked-in all the way through even if that went smoothly on the way back. i got multiple check-in codes for the same booking, and making changes is just overall much more painful if a travel agent is involved .  i just managed to find another example  again, for longyearbyen: just an example, since i am not currently planning of flying there in september :    as you can see, for the day only trips with 2 layover are offered.  but i checked on 4 different otas, and all of them are offering a booking with a single layover:   expedia  lucky2go      lastminute      gotogate     this seems even weirder, when you consider that the single legs are actually available for purchase on sas itself:      but somehow, sas does not allow me to purchase this trip directly with them.  how common is this  are there other solutions besides booking via an ota  would i be able to maybe get the booking done by directly calling the airline   and if so, would this be standard practice, or should i expect it to be hit and miss depending on the airline    answer this happens quite regularly for multi-carrier trips. less so for single carrier trips.  airline search algorithms are often inferior  for single carrier trips, it is almost always because the airline is search algorithm does not find the trip you want, not because the airline does not sell it.  if the search tool is an in-house product, it may be inferior in an absolute sense compared to something like ita is qpx search, which many otas now use. writing a search algorithm for airline flights is a terrifically hard problem  formally it is classed as  undecidable  , and airlines do not hire the kind of computer scientists who can solve it efficiently. specialists like ita have hundreds of computer scientists.  alternatively, an airline is search may be tuned with different preferences to an ota. a lot of airlines try to avoid overnight stops, even if that would be preferable to three flights at a higher price. i would guess that is the cause of your sas problem here.  solutions   try the multicity search, and put some of the connecting cities in as if they were stopovers. when you choose the dates, choose the dates that you will actually fly that leg. this is often a good bet, but it sometimes causes the airline to price your trip with a fare break point at the stopover  i.e., as a sum of one way fares instead of a single through fare : iberia.com is particularly terrible for this shortcut. however, i notice sas has helpfully removed its multicity feature as part of the dumbing down exercise that makes the rest of its webpage unusable on a real computer. bookwithmatrix or google flights can sometimes link you directly to the desired itinerary on the airline is site.  if you do this on aa.com, you will find that you get kicked out at the payment stage if your credit card is address is not in the united states. but it turns out aa does not actually validate the country field, so you can just leave it set to united states.  call the airline, tell them what flight numbers you want to fly, and give them the price you expect. there is usually a telephone booking fee for doing this, although if you have some status with the airline it might be waived, particularly if you explain their website was not good enough to do it online. i used to have a friend at the amsterdam ticketing desk for british airways. in what i consider a crowning achievement some years ago, i constructed a price for a trip from information on expertflyer.com that was 50  lower than his system or any ota admitted, and after some back and forth with revenue management, he agreed it was a bug in their pricing system and sold me the itinerary at the lower price. :-       and if so, would this be standard practice, or should i expect it to be hit and miss depending on the airline     ba, aa, klm, 90  success rate, sometimes have to hang up and call again. qantas, jal, cathay pacific, their telephone staff and ticket desks are always reliable. air france, maybe 50 . iberia, alitalia, latam: total waste of time.   point-of-sale differences in inventory  sometimes, additional inventory is available in the city where the travel agent is based, compared to where the airline is calculating the price. to understand why that can be the case, you should know that  how many seats left for sale on a plane  is a function of the sales city as well as other factors. airline websites, in my experience, usually price from the city of origin, whereas agents usually price from a fixed point. one way to see this is from the payment currency, which will invariably be the currency of the sales city. for instance expedia.fr prices out of paris, regardless of whether the itinerary passes through that city.  this only seems to matter when the flight is filling up.  ticket issuance restrictions in the fare  sometimes, the airline really cannot sell you the trip. this may be because the trip comprises multiple fares and one of the fares has a restriction that it must be issued  on the stock  of a ticket airline. stock here refers to the old fashioned 4-part carbon paper tickets, but the concept is directly implemented in electronic ticketing. for instance, looking at a cheap s7 fare from london to yekaterinburg:  category 15: sales restrictions  tickets must be issued on s7.  note -  sales permitted on ticket stock validated or  plated s7/421 only.   even though a ba plane will fly you the first leg from london to moscow, ba could not sell you a journey involving this particular fare. airlines always sell tickets on their own  paper , not as agents for another airline  in this case, ba sells tickets on ba plate  ticket number starting  125-   and s7 sells tickets on s7 plate  ticket number starting  421-  . but a travel agent could pick any validating carrier with whom it has a ticketing agreement, subject to the fare rules and the agreement. so the travel agent has some additional flexibility.   this really only matters when you have a particularly complicated trip with multiple airlines who do not partner together very closely. 	
should i wear a face mask in public  if so, how do i make one  answer the cdc recently changed its guidance on wearing face masks as more studies about asymptomatic spread pile up.  now, the cdc  recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain  e.g., grocery stores and pharmacies .   but there are several important caveats and key points:     the public should not buy surgical masks or n95 respirator masks. those are desperately needed by health care workers who are in close contact with coronavirus patients every day.   instead, make your own cloth mask -- it is easy, and you do not have to sew. us surgeon general jerome adams shows how to make face masks with just a t-shirt and rubber bands in this cdc video. you can also use a bandana and a coffee filter.   do not be fooled: the main benefit of wearing masks in public is not to protect you from getting sick. rather, it is to protect others from yourself if you are sick or you are an asymptomatic carrier.  this is more for people who might be infected and do not know it, and to try and lower the likelihood that they will spread this to somebody else,  cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. the cdc agreed.  you can definitely still get coronavirus even if you wear a mask. the virus can stay alive on surfaces for up to 3 days, and it is easy to touch your face whenever you are not wearing a mask. also, people often adjust face masks frequently, leading to more touching of the face -- a common way that coronavirus spreads.  it is important to wash your cloth mask after every use. here is how.   wearing cloth masks is just  an additional, voluntary public health measure,  the cdc said. to protect yourself from getting coronavirus, it is critical to stay 6 feet away from others, wash your hands frequently for at least 20 seconds each time, and stop touching your face.	
how fast does it spread  answer how fast does it spread   each infected person spreads to two or three others on average, researchers estimate. it spreads more easily than flu but less than measles, tuberculosis or some other respiratory diseases. it is not known if it spreads less easily among children, but fewer of them have been diagnosed with the disease. a study of 1,099 patients in china found that 0.9  of the cases were younger than 15.	
how would you explain covid-19 lockdown to a 4 year old given that the lockdown might be in place for months in london   answer first of all, recognize that your concerns may not be the same as your four year old is concerns. this has two implications:   your child may be worried about things you could not have thought of. your child is likely shielded from or does not understand a lot of what is going on, and that can also mean that they do not have access to bits of information that would actually be reassuring. encourage your child to ask questions about corona, so that they are not left to ponder on their own things that may seem frightening. you are likely worrying about outcomes your child has no thought of. try not to pass on your own fears to your child. if pre-school is closed and one parent has to stay home from work to care for the child, recognize that this may be viewed as a mainly positive outcome to the child.   with my three year old, i emphasize that all closures and restrictions  writing from sweden, we are not currently in full lockdown  are not - ultimately - to protect us from disease, but to protect our elderly from catching it from us. i find that framing to be appealing because it is both true, and i imagine it is less scary to a young child to hear how we all have to chip in and make sacrifices to protect another group, than to convey an image that it is actually unsafe for them to step outside.  why we should wash our hands and what is so good about vaccines are some things we talk about normally, and the current situation is a good opportunity to put that into context. you can say that it is to avoid this that we vaccinate against a lot of other things, and that scientists are working on a vaccine against this too. that perhaps once your kid will have children of their own, and they will receive a corona vaccine as well in the routine program, and your child will be able to tell their children how they remember what it was like before the vaccine. washing hands has been a constant battle. now we have introduced a longer routine, which involves singing a 20-second-long song, and compliance has  temporarily, i assume  increased.  consider whether you are changing your own behavior in a manner which may require explanation. for instance, if you are suddenly buying groceries in conspicuously larger quantities than normal, or even if they may have seen the images of empty shelves, you may want to point out that you and others are trying to reduce your number of trips to the grocery store, and hence the number of chances you may infect some at-risk person, lest they think that you are actually going to run out of food.  as an adult, it is easy to become consumed by this. we like to stay updated about what is going on in the world, and this is certainly a main event, and a rapidly evolving one. for my own sake, i could easily bingewatch news for the greater part of the day, and spend the remainder hypothesizing over different future scenarios. recognize that a young child is world is smaller than yours. talk about it as a thing that is happening right now, but make sure most of your interactions revolve around normal day to day activities. the above is addressing your question, how to talk about corona, but also make sure you do not talk exclusively about corona. 	
with the news that boris johnson has tested positive for covid-19, and was later hospitalised, a question occurred to me:   what happens if the uk prime minister suddenly dies    i know that the prime minister is usually the leader of the party with the most seats, and presumably the party would somehow choose a new leader as soon as they can. however, organizing a vote of the conservative part membership would still require at least a few days under normal circumstances  and under the current circumstances, it might take significantly longer.   is there simply no prime minister until the governing party can choose another one  if so, how are the functions of the head of government performed during this time   i would be interested in knowing how this would work  if it is any different  in other westminster systems as well. i saw the question on what happens if the uk prime minister resigns , but the answer there assumes a orderly transition period during which the incumbent continues to serve while a new party leader is chosen.   answer your understanding is correct - there is no uk prime minister until one is appointed by the queen. in the meantime, the civil contingencies act  2004  gives the monarch  in practice, government ministers  powers to make emergency regulations, and cobra meetings can be chaired by any cabinet minister - after 9/11, these were chaired by the cabinet secretary until the pm could attend himself.  the queen will appoint as pm the person most likely to command the confidence of the house of commons. in practice, this is the person chosen as the leader of the party with the most mps - in this case, the party that the deceased pm previously led. how this is chosen, and how quickly, will depend on the party in question, although in these circumstances it seems likely that an interim leader would be speedily chosen. the labour party is rules for this are described in steve melnikoff is answer here. in the case of the conservative party, their constitution states under schedule 2 - rules for the election of the leader that:      upon the initiation of an election for the leader, it shall be the  duty of the 1922 committee to present to the party, as soon as  reasonably practicable, a choice of candidates for election as leader.  the rules for deciding the procedure by which the 1922 committee  selects candidates for submission for election shall be determined by  the executive committee of the 1922 committee after consultation of  the board.   if there is only one candidate at the time laid down for  the close of nominations, that candidate shall be declared leader of  the party.     it would be possible, then, for mps to be strongly encouraged to only nominate one candidate in order to conclude this process as quickly as possible, without a full membership vote. you may remember in 2016, for example, andrea leadson withdrew from the leadership contest leaving theresa may as the sole candidate, which meant that there was no ballot of the party membership.  in the specific case you raise, however, foreign secretary dominic raab was given the role of wouldesignated survivor  on march 22nd, and will carry out johnson is duties that he can not perform himself while he is affected by the virus. it should be noted that this role is not an official post, and if johnson were to die from the virus then it is not a given that raab would be appointed leader of the party and therefore the new pm. in fact, the article notes that this designation was challenged by some in the cabinet, who thought that the chancellor of the duchy of lancaster, michael gove, should have been given the role, and indeed  gove replaced johnson at the daily press briefing on march 27th. another contender might be jeremy hunt, against whom johnson won the conservative party leadership election in 2019.  as for other westminster systems, there is no blanket answer to that question. it is perfectly possible for a bill to be introduced that immediately designates the new prime minister on their death, as in the us system. indeed, in 2013, peter bone mp introduced the prime minister  replacement  bill, which contains the following provision:    in the event of the death or incapacitation of a person holding the  title of prime minister and first lord of the treasury, the title,  salary and functions of that role shall be conferred upon another  secretary or minister of state in accordance with the following order  of precedence--        a  person bearing the designation of deputy prime  minister     b  secretary of state with responsibility for home affairs    c  secretary of state with responsibility for defence   ...     this bill did not make it onto the statute books, but it proves the point that it is possible for an order of succession to exist in a westminster system. 	
at the end of this video ny governor, andrew cuomo, criticizes the cdc for  not letting  the state of new york and other laboratories test for covid-19.  what did he mean by that  does the cdc have some legal authority to prevent the state of new york and other private laboratories from testing for covid-19   answer the cdc  centers for disease control  and the fda  food and drug administration  are both us federal agencies that have overlapping authority over medical testing in the us. in general federal rules prevail over state rules, so yes the cdc can stop the state of new york from testing for covid-19 if the cdc has not approved the testing protocol.  the primary reason behind the rules is to ensure that any tests provided to the public are reliable. a secondary reason it to ensure that the testing development process followed guidelines on medical ethics. there is a set of procedures for emergency use authorization, but there have been widespread complaints that even that process has grown too cumbersome and time consuming.  there has been more extensive coverage of the cdc and fda stopping/delaying testing in washington state. 	
why do the number of cases for previous days increase  answer delays in reporting can cause the number of covid-19 cases reported on previous days to increase.  sometimes this effect is described as  backfill.   state, local, and territorial health departments report the number of cases that have been confirmed and share these data with cdc. since it takes time to conduct laboratory testing, cases from a previous day may be added to the daily counts a few days late.	
why have some governments banned outbound international flights in response to covid-19   for example, the philippines initially announced  but later reversed  a ban on outbound flights:    airports in luzon  large island in philippines where the capital, manila, is located  will stop all outbound international flights starting friday after the government gave a 72-hour window to all those who wish to leave the country after heightened measures were put in place to control the spread of covid-19.    http://www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2020/3/17/philippines-international-flights-coronavirus-luzon-quarantine.html   the new york times has an article on travel bans that identifies a few other cases of countries with outbound travel bans, including:   namibia:  suspending inbound and outbound flights from qatar, ethiopia and germany for 30 days  bolivia:  cessation of all flights to and from europe  peru:  the measure means all international flights will be canceled.     i understand the ban of inbound international flights to prevent contaminated individuals from entering the country, but banning outbound flights seems less obvious to me.  answer another possibility, ignoring fears of infection, is that the country does not want their citizens to become stranded in another country if flights are suspended at a later date. for example, on monday, march 30th, the uk foreign secretary dominic raab announced a ps75m plan to charter flights to repatriate stranded britons, and also advised any citizens still in countries where commercial flights remain available to fly home as soon as possible.  if a country is citizens become stranded abroad it will usually end up being the government is responsibility to fly them home. 	
it is my understanding that  epidemic  is an abnormally high amount of cases than expected.  pandemic  refers to a epidemic that crosses continents  please correct my understanding if it is wrong .  my question is should coronavirus  that is, covid-19  be considered a  pandemic  ar this point, or is there some other criteria it would need to fulfill to be considered a  pandemic   perhaps an organization like who would need to designate it as a  pandemic    answer note: as can be expected from a dynamic event, this answer has changed a bit. the who now considers covid-19 a pandemic  when this answer was initially written, they did not: see the update at the end.  according to dr. anthony fauci, director of the us national institute of allergy and infectious diseases as reported by cnn:     it really is borderline semantics, to be honest with you,  fauci said.     i think you could have people arguing each end of it,  he said.  pandemics mean different things to different people.    the word pandemic itself refers to:    an epidemic of disease that has spread across a large region  for instance multiple continents, or worldwide.   given a broad definition like this one, it seems like yes, you could make a case that this is already a pandemic: covid-19 is found on all richly inhabited continents and is continuing to spread.  however, there are still many places that have few cases compared to the outbreak centers, and only a tiny percentage of the world population is known to have been infected  the latest who report covers nearly 91,000 cases, a large number, but a tiny percentage: only 0.0012  of the world population of over 7.5 billion .  by comparison, the 2009 h1n1 pandemic infected 11-21  of the world population.  organizations like the who have a more stringent operational definition of  pandemic , and none that i am aware of at this point have used the  pandemic  classification yet in an official pronouncement.  so, if instead of using a broad dictionary interpretation of  pandemic , we say:  considered a pandemic means a reputable global health organization classifies a pandemic , then the answer is:  no, covid-19 is not yet considered a pandemic as of march 3rd, 2020.  ultimately, it does not really matter whether the pandemic term is applied or not. it makes most sense to think in terms of actual numbers and the situation  on the ground , and to compare those to past outbreaks rather than worrying about the definition or declaration of  pandemic.   update march 11th  as of march 11th, 2020, the who now considers covid-19 to be a pandemic. consistent with this answer, the who stresses that this does not really change their guidance:     describing the situation as a pandemic does not change who is assessment of the threat posed by this  coronavirus. it does not change what who is doing, and it does not change what countries should do -   drtedros  	
is herd immunity a better preventive strategy than social distancing  answer is herd immunity a better preventive strategy than social distancing  the united kingdom is using this model where it is allowing the virus to spread but is protecting the higher-risk group like the elderly people and people with heart conditions, hypertension, respiratory diseases etc. the idea is that since mortality is much less in younger age groups, they may end up having a large number of positive cases but will also lead to herd immunity given their lower mortality rate. as per experts, one problem with herd immunity is that if younger people get infected and infect the elderly at their home etc, then it can lead to higher mortality. this is why experts feel that social distancing is a better method in case of india.	
over the past several weeks, i have been gaining muscle mass and getting close to prs across the 5 lifts specified in the strong lift program. now, many gyms are closed across the united states  and the world  due to the covid-19 pandemic. what exercises do you recommend that i could do at home and most closely simulates the strong lifts 5 x 5 program  for, when the quarantine is over, i do not want to lose my progress in stronglifts.   thanks   answer unfortunately, unless you have a good home gym set up, you are not going to be able to carry on with the stronglifts program.  sorry, but that is just the way it is.  now, focusing on the positive, there are a large number of home training options available, depending on what you are willing to invest in and what space you have available.  i like kettlebells, so i own a few of them and can get a good training session in with swings, turkish get-ups, presses, goblet squats and loaded carries.  likewise, bodyweight, you can get a good session in with press ups  since you mentioned you have got bad wrists, you can invest in some push up handles, or can you do push ups on your dumbbells  , pull ups, single leg squat variations, planks and romanian deadlifts using a box full of books  ok, it is not bodyweight, but you get the idea .  being outside in nature is always a good thing, so load up a backpack with some weight and go for a walk  technically called  rucking  . while you are at it, occasionally press the bag overhead, or carry it one side or the other, bear hug it to your chest, just play with the position to stress your muscles.  if you have only been training for a few weeks, chances are that you will still gain strength from any sort of training, provided you do not slack off. no, it will not be stronglifts style training, but stronger is stronger, having a solid core is always a good thing and helps with the powerlifts. basically, improvise  	
is there one best mask design  answer there is little data so far on cloth or homemade masks in general -- let alone data that dictates how many pleats to put on your home-sewn version. griffin says the best material to use is a tight-weave cotton.  do not use a synthetic or a polyester because they have looked at the virus is ability to survive on surfaces, and spandex is the worst,  he says. johns hopkins medicine has one design you might try. kaiser permanente has another design, as well as a video showing how to make a mask using a sewing machine. both recommend 100  woven cotton fabric. kaiser recommends washing and drying the fabric two or three times before cutting it, so it does not shrink later. you can make a mask out of a t-shirt, no sewing machine required. you could also try making one out of  unused  shop towels. but no matter what you make it out of, try to make it fit closely to your face and do not touch the front of it once you have started wearing it.	
there have been  suggestions   facebook, media etc  that the novel coronavirus is heat sensitive. specifically that the virus is  killed  or impotent when subjected to temperature of 77f.   are there any peer-reviewed studies that would support such a contention   more broadly, are there any peer-reviewed studies on the viability of the virus in other naturally occurring circumstances    as i am not a medical professional or researcher, i am a bit lost on how to do my own research to find appropriate and reliable information on this - i am not even sure that i am using the appropriate terminology. this is why i have come to this site: for guidance on how to get the information    answer here are studies on viability at different temperature for similar viruses    http://www.journalofhospitalinfection.com/article/s0195-6701 20 30046-3/fulltext 	
  emoji puzzle - unesco world heritage sites  created by myself during covid-19 lockdown. i have posted an image because emoji rendering as text are not working too well.  answer an attempt to gather all correct solutions as a community wiki.  1  found by jafe     angel   fall   fall   angel falls   2  found by chronocidal     eiffel tower   3  found by jafe     mountain   fu   g   mount fuji   4  found by lanny strack     stonehenge   5  found by glorfindel     blue mosque in istanbul   6  found by jafe     kill   eye   mango   jar   o   kilimanjaro   7  found by glorfindel     uluru / ayers rock  2 ears  rarr  ayers   rock    8  found by chronocidal     the  leaning  tower of pisa   9  found by jmp     statue of liberty  lie-bee-tea    10  found by lanny strack      great  smoky mountains   11  found by chronocidal     gran d , adder  granada   12  found by lanny strack     vatican  city    13  found by lanny strack     pyrenees   14  found by jmp     great barrier reef  beer-ear    15  found by glorfindel     galapagos islands   16  found by glorfindel     kremlin  ice cream  rarr  krem   a lin e  of people    17  found by unidentifiedx     yellowstone national park   18  found by kramii     ghee cops  cheops  pyramids   19  found by jmp     rockies  rock-eyes    20  found by mathias711     easter island  	
you can read president trump is full proclamation regarding conditions of travel between the us and schengen zone here. nowhere in this proclamation is a mention of a quarantine.  however, several major news outlets seem to be reporting different  and contradictory  things.  bbc reports:     under president donald trump, the federal government has banned  non-citizens from coronavirus-hit regions entry, but us citizens are  allowed back into the country after a two-week quarantine.   yet, cnn says     returning travelers will be screened prior to entering the us and asked to self-quarantine for 14 days.   my question is, which is it  will people exempt by the restriction face a mandated quarantine at the airport, or be told to self-quarantine  nowhere in the official proclamation do i see mention of screening  which i am all for . if one of these people who is exempt from the restriction passes the screening  negative for the virus , are they free to go   answer according to the dhs announcement and fact sheet, the procedures for people who have been to schengen area countries within the last 14 days who are exempt from the ban  us citizens, permanent residents, and their immediate family members  are the same as the procedure for people who have been to mainland china  but have not been to hubei province  or iran within the last 14 days.  basically, they will have to arrive in the us at one of 13 designated airports, where they will undergo medical examination. if they have no symptoms, they will be asked to self-monitor their health and limit interactions  the government also calls this  self-quarantine   until 14 days after they have left the schengen area, but there are no formal restrictions on where they can go.  only people who have been to hubei province within the last 14 days are subject to a formal, mandatory quarantine so far. 	
the protease inhibitor lopinavir, originally developed as a cure against aids and hiv, has been shown efficient against sars coronavirus sars-cov.     dayer m r, taleb-gassabi s, dayer m s. lopinavir  a potent drug against coronavirus infection: insight from molecular docking study, arch clin infect dis. 2017   12 4 :e13823. doi: 10.5812/archcid.13823.   why is lopinavir not efficient against sars-cov-2  is there a difference in the gene encoding for the protease   answer is there a difference in the gene encoding for the protease   this paper by wu et al. annotates the sars-cov-2 genome and compares its divergence from other coronaviruses, which may help answer your second question.  this annotation includes 16 genes for non-structural protein   nsp  . supplemental materials for this paper indicate that all but two of these proteins  nsp7 and nsp13  have amino acid substitutions between sars-cov-2   2019-ncov  in the paper  and sars-cov.   the gene nsp5 encodes 3clpro  chymotrypsin-like cysteine protease , so there are differences there.   literature suggests nsp5 and other non-structural proteins are potential targets for a number of antiviral therapies.  another paper suggests further that lopinavir targets nsp3 products, among other proteins, in use against sars-cov:    lopinavir is possible target is nsp3b, nsp3c, helicase, nrbd or e-channel with the mfscores of -158.050, -189.140, -114.018, -171.127, and -221.785, respectively.   the nsp3 gene contains a papain-like protease 2  pl2pro  domain. supplemental materials from the first linked paper suggest nsp3 has a different amino acid sequence between sars-cov and sars-cov-2.   it might be worth digging into the wu et al. paper and the raw annotation data to look at what those a.a. substitutions are, to see if that might help in determining why lopinavir is not as efficient at inactivating pl2pro and reducing levels of the novel coronavirus.  it may also be worth considering the target itself. going back to the nature biotechnology article:    but erik de clercq, of the rega institute for medical research in leuven, belgium, says that in searching for or designing effective drugs against covid-19:  we should stay away from antivirals known to be acting at targets not playing a role in the replication of coronaviruses.  such drugs include penciclovir, which is targeted at the herpesvirus dna polymerase, and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are targeted at the hiv protease. instead, he would favor targeting a virus-specific protein such as the rna-dependent rna polymerase, noting that coronaviruses do not contain or use a reverse transcriptase.  	
i am experiencing some difficulties in the estimation of the parameters   alpha,  beta,  gamma  for the following discrete-time sird  susceptibles, infected, recovered, dead  model with sampling step of 1 day      tag 1  begin cases  s  t  amp  s  t-1 - alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n      i  t  amp  i  t-1   alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n - beta i  t-1 - gamma i  t-1     r  t  amp  r  t-1   beta i  t-1     d  t  amp  d  t-1   gamma i  t-1      end cases   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots    that i have found in this paper. in order to find the unknown   alpha,  beta,  gamma , i want to use the least squares regression in his closed-form solution. the parameter  n  is the size of the population under study, so it is known and has not to be estimated.   1 derivation of the ls estimator  1.1 definitions   let is consider the dataset  d t triangleq  y 0, dots,y t    up to the observation horizon  t , where  y t triangleq s t, i t, r t, d t    is the vector of the observed values at time  t  for the variables  s,i,r,d . here     denotes the transpose operation, thus  y t  is a column vector in   mathbb n   4 times1    let   theta triangleq  alpha,  beta,  gamma    be the generic vector of parameters. the prediction model   hat y  t  theta   is   1  , so    tag 2    hat y  t  theta  triangleq  begin bmatrix   s  t-1 - alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n       i  t-1   alpha frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n - beta i  t-1 - gamma i  t-1       r  t-1   beta i  t-1       d  t-1   gamma i  t-1   end bmatrix   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots     with the convention that   hat y  0  theta  triangleq 0   let  v t  theta  triangleq  frac 1  2  sum   t 0  t   y t- hat y  t  theta     2  the quadratic cost up to  t . here      cdot     denotes the euclidian norm. the least square estimator   theta  text ls   of the areal  parameter   bar  theta   is defined as    tag 3  theta  text ls  triangleq  arg min   theta  in  mathbb r 3   v t   theta    i.e. the minimum for the cost  v t .   1.2 analitic solution of   3     the idea to solve   3   is to use the standard technique by solving with respect to   theta  the equation    tag 4  frac  partial v t  theta    partial  theta  0   the solution is a minimum for  v t  since   3   is a convex problem under mild assumptions regarding the dataset  d t   invertibility of the next matrix  r t  defined below . in order to solve   4  , let is start by observing that the prediction model   2   is linear in their parameters. in fact we can write that    tag 5  hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta   y  t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots   by introducing the regression matrices in   mathbb r  4 times3       tag 6  varphi t  triangleq  begin bmatrix   - frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n   amp  0  amp  0       phantom -  frac s  t-1 i  t-1   n   amp  -i  t-1   amp  -i  t-1       0  amp   phantom - i  t-1   amp  0     0  amp  0  amp   phantom - i  t-1   end bmatrix   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots   with the conventions that   varphi 0, y  -1  0 . from   5   it follows straightforward that the gradient of the cost  v t  is    tag 7  begin align  frac  partial v t  theta    partial  theta   amp    sum  t 0  t -  frac  partial  hat y  t   theta    partial  theta  y t- hat y  t  theta      amp  - sum  t 0  t  varphi t  y t-  varphi t  theta   y  t-1        amp   sum  t 1  t  varphi t   varphi t  theta -  delta y t      amp   left  sum  t 1  t  varphi t   varphi t right  theta -  sum  t 1  t  varphi t  delta y t  end align     where   delta y t  triangleq y t-y  t-1  . if we introduce the matrix  r t in mathbb r   3 times3   and the vector   tilde  theta  t in mathbb r   3      tag 8 r t triangleq  sum  t 1  t  varphi t   varphi t  qquad  tilde  theta  t triangleq  sum  t 1  t  varphi t  delta y t   the gradient in   7   gets the following final sintetic expression    tag 9  frac  partial v t  theta    partial  theta    r t theta- tilde  theta  t   now, by combining   4   with   9   and by resolving with respect   theta , we can finally conclude that the least square estimator that we are searching is    tag 10  boxed  theta  text ls  r t  -1  tilde  theta  t     2 naive implementation in python  2.1 dataset  i want to estimate   bar  theta   for the covid-19 epidemy in italy, so i have built the dataset by retrieving from worldometers.info the number of infected  i t , recovered  r t  and dead  d t  individuals day by day. since  s t i t r t d t n  is costant in time, the number of susceptibles day by day is  s t n- i t r t d t  .   2.2 least squares estimation of the parameters  in order to compute   10  , we need:    to build   varphi t  and   delta y t . for the former we can use the definition   6  , for the latter we can observe that    tag 11   delta y t  triangleq y t-y  t-1   begin bmatrix   s t-s  t-1       i t-i  t-1       r t-r t-1       d t-d  t-1   end bmatrix   qquad  text for   , , t 1,2, dots    to build  r t  and   tilde  theta  t . the idea to compute   8   is to accumulate during the time the products   varphi t    varphi t  and   varphi t   delta y t .   after this 2 simple step the estimation is given by   10  .  2.3 simulation   for the simulation we use the prediction model   1   with the least squares parameters that we have just found. for the initial condition of the simulation i consider the situation where in the population there is only one infected individual that spreads the disease to the other people.     begin cases  s  0  amp  n-1     i  0  amp  1    r  0  amp  0    d  0  amp  n- s 0 i 0 r 0      end cases    here the starting number of dead individuals is obtained by imposing the costraint  s 0 i 0 r 0 d 0 n .  2.4 code   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt  import numpy as np    1 dataset    observed infected   oi   np.array   3, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4, 19,  75, 152, 221, 310, 455, 593, 822,  1049, 1577, 1835, 2263, 2706, 3296, 3916,  5061, 6387, 7985, 8514, 10590, 12839, 14955,  17750, 20603, 23073, 26062, 28710, 33190, 37860,  42681, 46638, 50418, 54030, 57521, 62013, 66414      observed recovered  or   np.array   0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1,  2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 46, 47,  51, 84, 150, 161, 277, 415, 524,  590, 623, 725, 1005, 1046, 1259, 1440,  1967, 2336, 2750, 2942, 4026, 4441, 5130,  6073, 7025, 7433, 8327, 9363, 10362, 10951       observed dead  od   np.array   0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1,  2, 3, 7, 11, 12, 7, 21,  29, 41, 52, 79, 107, 148, 197,  233, 366, 463, 631, 827, 1016, 1266,  1441, 1809, 2158, 2503, 2978, 3405, 4032,  4825, 5476, 6077, 6820, 7503, 8215, 9134       observed susceptibles   n   60 1000000  population size  t   oi.size  observation horizon   os   np.zeros  t,     for t in range 0, t :  os t    n- oi t  or t  od t                                                                                        2 least squares estimation of the parameter    initializazion of rt and thetatildet  rt   np.zeros  3,3     thetatildet   np.zeros  3,       construction of rt and thetatildet  for t in range 1, t :   definition of phit and deltayt  phit   np.array    -os t-1  oi t-1 /n, 0, 0 ,     os t-1  oi t-1 /n, -oi t-1 , -oi t-1  ,     0, oi t-1 , 0 ,    0, 0, oi t-1        deltayt   np.array  os t -os t-1 , oi t -oi t-1 ,   or t -or t-1 , od t -od t-1        accumulation in rt and thetatildet  rt    np.dot phit.transpose  ,phit   thetatildet    np.dot phit.transpose  , deltayt     least squares estimation  thetals   np.dot np.linalg.inv rt , thetatildet                                                                                      3 prediction    prediction model parameters  alpha   thetals 0   beta   thetals 1   gamma   thetals 2     initialization of the prediction model variables  s   np.zeros  t,    i   np.zeros  t,    r   np.zeros  t,    d   np.zeros  t,      initial condition of the prediction  s 0    n-1  i 0    1  r 0    0  d 0    n- s 0  i 0  r 0      simulation  for t in range 1,t :  s t    s t-1 -alpha  s t-1  i t-1 /n   i t    i t-1  alpha  s t-1  i t-1 /n -beta i t-1 -gamma i t-1   r t    r t-1  beta i t-1   d t    d t-1  gamma i t-1                                                                                     4 plots   fig, axs   plt.subplots 2, 1, constrained layout true   axs 0 .set title  observed data    axs 0 .plot range 0,t , oi   axs 0 .plot range 0,t , or   axs 0 .plot range 0,t , od   axs 0 .legend  ird 1 ,loc  upper left    axs 1 .set title  predicted data    axs 1 .plot range 0,t , i   axs 1 .plot range 0,t , r   axs 1 .plot range 0,t , d   axs 1 .legend  ird 1 ,loc  upper left     2.5 results  the prediction model does not work well, this is the plot of the prediction errors between the observed data and the predicted data.    i can not understand if somewhere i have made some mistake or if the estimation that i am using cannot provide good predictions.   answer 1  your equation number 5 should be     hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta    hat y   t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots    instead of     hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta   y  t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots    2  also you compute the derivative   varphi  based on the matrix that contains values of  s, i ,r, d  that are the observed values, but   varphi  should relate to the modeled values.    3  i am not sure whether you can continue your attempt to solve this analytically after correcting those mistakes. it looks a bit like how people solve equations with the finite element method and potentially you could solve it in that way as well  but it will be an approximation in terms of polynomial functions, and is not exact .   another way to solve it is to put the equations as a function, and have some solver optimize it  you can have the solver estimate the gradient . you can read about that here: fitting sir model with 2019-ncov data doesn  39 t conververge  in addition: you can recast the equations into a single differential equation. for the sir model this is demonstrated here:  tiberiu harko, francisco s. n. lobo, m. k. mak exact analytical solutions of the susceptible-infected-recovered  sir  epidemic model and of the sir model with equal death and birth rates arxiv:1403.2160  q-bio.pe   the sird model is almost analogous. it is nearly the same model, with only the r split up in two. so you can use this differential equation to make initial estimates of parameters.     also  fitting this kind of data to some model might be a bad idea. the sir type of models are some sort of logistic growth type models where the growth starts approximately exponentially but eventually the growth rate decreases. it is due to such terms like  di/dt   i    factor   where the factor is decreasing as  i   and  r  and  d   grow  in the case of logistic growth the factor is  1-i , for the sird model it a bit more sophisticated but not much different .  however, in the case of the corona epidemic, you get a decrease in the growth rate for a multitude of reasons.   weather changes   r 0  is not a constant  spatial distribution  this virus spreads in from place to place, and should not be considered with compartmental models that assume homogeneous mixing  a person in milan is much more likely to infect their family, neighbors, co-workers than a random person in the rest of lombardy  stochastic time effects. the article that you refer to tries to bring autocorrelation into the mixture, but you also have some stochastic behavior, people are not gonna get sick exactly at the same time. some people will get sick earlier than others and this will be according to some function that increases in time and that will make an increase of cases or deaths that might appear as an exponential growth that relates to a transmission model, but it might be not.  sampling bias. we can also see rapid increase in the sampling due to biassed sampling. definitions of the disease are changing  this gave a rapid bump in the curve for chinese , tests might be limited  several countries are limiting their testing which might give false ideas of reduction in the growth of the cases , positive reinforcement  once people have discovered the disease suddenly many other cases might become assigned to the same cause, and this may potentially occur inaccurate because a single cause of death is not always possible to assign   the last to points sampling bias and stochastic time behavior might have occured in the outbreak of sars  2003  in amoy gardens where hundreds of people got sick in a very short time frame. instead of fitting a model to it, one could also assume that all these hundreds of cases were infected by a single person  and that might be a more likely scenario . possibly such a situation may have occurred in italy as well, an initial heavy seeding by unnoticed cases that is now spreading with some time effect and causes the initial exponential decrease  currently the growth looks more like a quadratic curve . last but not least, people respond to the virus which may cause it is spread to increase/decrease. currently heavy measures have been taken and this restricts to a large extend the ability of the virus to spread. you can not model this with a model that has parameters that are constant in time  well, you can, but the outcome will be meaningless    the logistic sir type models will interpret all those reasons for a reduction in the growth rate as a reproduction rate very close to 1 or a low population parameter  you fixed it at the size of the population under study, but this is arbitrary, and also not everybody is gonna be susceptible, possibly many people might have some sort of immunity and get little infected, e.g. a hoskin is effect or some other effect might make only/mostly the elderly population susceptible .  this makes the seemingly mechanistic model, meaningless regarding the parameters. the outcome will be unrealistic. 	
there has been a hong kong flu, a swine flu, h1n1, sars, mers, ebola, zika and other global health threats since the 1960s. how is the coronavirus different  answer the current outbreak is the world is first pandemic caused by a coronavirus, a family of virsuses that includes the covid-19 virus, according to the head of the who.    while more people in the u.s. were infected by and died after contracting the flu in 1968 and 2009, the new coronavirus has infected and killed more people in the u.s. than did sars, mers, ebola or zika.    by comparison, the 1968  hong kong flu  pandemic was caused by an influenza a virus and killed an estimated 1 million people worldwide, with about 100,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. the 2009  swine flu  pandemic was caused by an h1n1 subtype of the influenza a virus and killed at least 151,000 people worldwide during the first year the virus circulated, with more than 12,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. 	
i made  85,000 last year. how much money will i receive    answer for a single tax filer, the rebate amount reduces by  5 for every  100 of income over  75,000. so a single person with no children who had adjusted gross income of  85,000 in 2019, and has already filed a 2019 tax return, would receive  700.  keep in mind that phase-out of the credit is based on people is adjusted gross income, which does not include income put into pre-tax accounts such as traditional 401 k s. as a result, someone with an annual salary of  85,000 and no other income could have adjusted gross income of less than  85,000.	
how concerned should i be -- how does covid-19 compare to the flu  answer concerned.  stay on top of cdc updates and guidance, as well as from state and local health departments. take the time to sit down and plan for what you will do if local transmission of the virus occurs in your city.  even the experts are not completely sure what is going to happen.   it is hard,  said dr. stanley perlman, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the university of iowa, who described receiving a text message from his son asking whether he should stock up on canned goods.   i would be inclined not to,  perlman said.  we know from other cases that it actually tends to make things worse, because people stock up and then we do not have anything.   covid-19 appears to be more fatal than the flu, with some studies pegging covid-19 is fatality rate at around 3.4 , while the flu is fatality rate is less than 1 . still, experts anticipate that covid-19 is mortality rate will fall when more people with mild symptoms are diagnosed with the virus. typically, the sickest people tend to seek health care treatment first. compared to past coronaviruses, such as sars and mers, however, most covid-19 cases are mild.     for most people, it is going to mean no disease or a mild illness,  merson said. unfortunately, that mildness could also explain why covid-19 is spreading more rapidly than highly fatal diseases do. hiv, for example,  was very fatal, but hard to transmit,  he added.	
how do you get tested for coronavirus  answer to get tested for coronavirus, you should first contact your general practitioner  gp  and warn them of your symptoms before arriving at the practice.  your gp or hospital emergency department can order the test kits and, once completed, they are processed in public health laboratories across australia.	
coronavirus death rates are higher for people in the range of 80   14,8   and 70-79 years old  3,6  . however, there are countries, specially in africa, where life expectancies are in the 50-60 and 60-70 years old range. some people  like bill gates  warned about possible catastrophes if the virus massively reachs africa. could it happen than the lower life expectancy of those countries prevents more people from dying  is people who lives 60 years old in countries with lower life expectancy, expected to have the mortality rates for coronavirus of the people of the same age in countries with higher life expectancy, or a person of 60 years old in countries like those is in a physical state of an older person in a more developed country and as such have a higher mortality rate    answer age is a red herring, only a secondary characteristic correlating to death rates.  it is people that are already seriously ill or already have weak immune systems that are most likely to die soon after contracting covid-19. and it is when people are clustered in a close community that they are most likely to contract the disease.  in our society, the people in those circumstances tend to be old and in health-care facilities. as a result, most of our deaths so far have involved people over 80 years old.  in other societies, a lack of old people does not necessarily mean a lack people living in close quarters, that are weak or sick.  there is certainly no shortage of such conditions in many parts of africa.  from coronavirus disease  covid-19  - our world in data:   	
i did not follow the uk news closely, so please enlighten me on how cabinet meetings were conducted by boris johnson while he has covid-19. all i have read on this is that:    prime minister boris johnson has been admitted to hospital for tests, 10 days after testing positive for coronavirus, downing street has said.    he was taken to a london hospital on sunday evening with  persistent symptoms  - including a temperature.    it is said to be a  precautionary step  taken on the advice of his doctor.    the prime minister remains in charge of the government, but the foreign secretary is expected to chair a coronavirus meeting on monday morning.  ...     mr johnson has worked from home since it was announced that he had tested positive for coronavirus on 27 march.   so did bojo chair the prior meetings via videconferencing, but this is no longer possible from a hospital setting  as opposed to his home    answer the prime minister has been chairing meetings via videoconference, specifically using zoom  bbc news .  it is being reported this evening  by itv news among others  that tomorrow is covid-19 meeting will be chaired by dominic raab, the first secretary of state. 	
do the symptoms for covid-19 come together or can you have separate symptoms showing up at different times  answer the most common symptoms are fever, tiredness and dry cough, according to thewho. shortness of breath is also among the most common symptoms, according tothe cdc. in most cases where symptoms present, those symptoms come together,hotez said. usually it presents with fever and cough, or fever, cough, and shortness ofbreath,  he said.  it might present with one of those symptoms first, but thenit rapidly progresses to the others. some patients also have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sorethroat or diarrhea. some people do not have symptoms at all.a  new york neurosurgeon is warningpeople  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/19/new-york-doctor-tests-positive-coronavirus-reports-different-symptoms/2873342001/  againstlooking out for fever as the first tell-tale symptom of the virus. hissymptoms began with a little bit of congestion and only later progressed to afever, body aches and chills.   more on testing:   coronavirus test swabs are not your standard q-tips, andthey are running out as testing rampsup  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/coronavirus-testing-nasopharyngeal-swabs-running-out-tests-ramp-up/2863270001/ 	
should i be tested for the virus  answer it is not completely up to you.    the cdc recently rolled out new guidance, allowing anyone to be tested for covid-19 without restrictions, as long as their doctor approves. testing is on the rise in the u.s., but experts say it is not yet enough.    if you have traveled to an area with local transmission or have been in close contact with someone who has been exposed to the virus, and develop symptoms, such as cough or fever, your health care provider can work with the local health department to determine whether you should be tested for covid-19.    if you have symptoms, but no travel history to an outbreak area, you could go to a clinic and have a rapid test done to rule out more common viruses, such as influenza, merson advised.    if you have mild symptoms and are worried that you might have covid-19, call your doctor or local health department instead of going to a clinic or doctor is office without an appointment, to ensure you are not potentially exposing others to the virus. if you have severe breathing problems, seek medical attention or call 911 immediately, recommends dr. jennifer ashton, abc news  chief medical correspondent.    you should let the person you speak with know that you have respiratory problems and need to be isolated and seen right away.	
let is say one country or a region could take action to contain the corona virus  eg: south korea, wuhan china . how could they remain protected while other countries or regions still have the virus  do they have to stay isolated until no one in the world has the virus  or if protection can only going to come through newly developed immunity by getting infected, does that mean every one in the world at some point has to get infected until a vaccine is invented   answer   does that mean every one in the world at some point has to get infected until a vaccine is invented    no. there are many infectous diseases which are only regional, or have been almost eradicated. countries free of  this or that  disease need to act quickly on imported cases, if the disease is highly infectuous.   on the other hand, if the spread of a pathogen in a  say closed  region is slowed down substantially, people who have developed immunity in this region will generally make the reproductive factor of the epidemic lower - and thus make it easier to contain its spread.   you may have a look at the last simulation in: http://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/world/corona-simulator/ where the epidemic can in many cases self-extinguish itself by that effect.  	
there is a lockdown in the uk.  i am a student living at warwickshire. i planned a 2 day trip a long time ago to the south of england, and i will be travelling by car with my friend  only 1 friend .     with the current lockdown rules, will i be stopped and fined     what are the possible consequences    update: i am not going anywhere  thanks for the answers   answer   i will be travelling by car with my friend  only 1 friend .    with the current lockdown rules, will i be stopped and fined    from coronavirus: boris johnson is address to the nation in full - bbc news     that is why people will only be allowed to leave their home for the following very limited purposes:       shopping for basic necessities, as infrequently as possible   one form of exercise a day - for example a run, walk, or cycle - alone or with members of your household    any medical need, to provide care or to help a vulnerable person  and   travelling to and from work, but only where this is absolutely necessary and cannot be done from home.       that is all - these are the only reasons you should leave your home.   since none of the above conditions are fullfilled, very likely.     what are the possible consequences    a fine, the amount of which has not yet been announced.   the legislation can be viewed at:    the health protection  coronavirus, restrictions   england  regulations 2020    section  nbsp  nbsp 6: restrictions on movement section 10: fixed penalty notices     the times  from 24th march suggest this will be from 30ps to 1000ps  third paragraph :   	
what if a colleague gets infected  answer what if a colleague gets infected  if you have come in close contact with someone who has tested positive, you should go into self-quarantine for two weeks. if you show symptoms, get tested.	
how did it start  answer the virus is one of the few that can be transmitted from animals to humans. it is believed to have originated in bats, which perhaps infected live animals and seafood sold at a  wet market  in wuhan, a crowded, not so sanitary dense marketplace. bats are also hosts for ebola, hiv, and rabies.    the first person who contracted the virus on december 1, 2019, had no connection to the outdoor market, making it unclear how he contracted it in the first place.     others who shopped there came down with viral pneumonia from covid-19.	
my international conference in europe this may has been canceled due to the covid-19. i have a ticket, purchased from tap air portugal, from toronto, canada to lisbon. because it is a non-refundable fare, they do not want to give a refund.  they will not allow me to reschedule later than may 31 of this year. this will not be useful for me.  what options do i have  i would prefer to get a full refund.   i am a us citizen if it matters   note: they offered to refund just the taxes, which is about 10  of the value. that is not horrible, but i would rather have the whole thing returned.  answer since you bought a non-refundable ticket, the airline does not have to refund you. travel insurance could pay out if you have  event cancellation  cover. however, since the the canadian government does not advise against travelling to portugal, it is unlikely that most generic policies will pay out.  i would say that your best option is just to wait. it is possible that the flight could be cancelled either due to official travel advisories or reduced demand. in this case, you will be eligible for a full refund. 	
e.g. could you be infected by covid-19 as well as a different strand of coronaviruses  e.g. those that circulate in the population every flu season    answer yes:    coinfections involving multiple hcovs were also detected  table 2 .     ...        human coronaviruses hcov-nl63 and hcov-hku1 in hospitalized children with acute respiratory infections in beijing, china, advances in virology  2011   	
this sort of builds up on this and this previous question. both of them ask about if the president can block the transfer of their office to a successor.  in response to the current coronavirus pandemic, many states are encouraging people to use  social distancing  methods and canceling large public events to prevent the spread of the disease. with large numbers of people using the same voting booths and voting machines, in-person voting seems like it could provide an effective vector for the spread of the disease, and if the pandemic continues to get worse it is possible to imagine in-person voting being significantly disrupted.  in this situation, what would happen if the coronavirus  or another pandemic  significantly disrupted in-person voting for the presidential election  would the election be delayed, or are there mechanisms to enforce a change in voting methods  in this kind of hypothetical situation, how would the successor of the u.s. president be  s elected   answer first, this has never really happened in the united states. in extreme emergencies and national disasters, elections have been held a few days late, but never suspended  unlike, for example, the united kingdom, that suspended elections during world war ii . elections were also not canceled during the civil war, or as a result of the war of 1812  during which the u.s. capitol was burned to the ground by foreign military forces .  for example, elections were not prevented from being conducted by the spanish flu of 1918 which was in all respects deadlier and more contagious than the coronavirus, despite the fact that the technology available for a response in 1918 was less advanced.  realistically, you would need a disease that is catastrophic on the scale of the black plague in medieval europe  that killed a third to a half of the population in many places , and not merely something like the coronavirus  with a 2  mortality rate , to take out the electoral process in the u.s.  a situation like that would involve the collapse of the entire regime and government, and would send us into uncharted waters.  second, election laws can be changed quite quickly in an emergency. one could, for example, shift as colorado has, to a system of near complete all mail in ballots, to reduce the amount of in person interactions that were needed.  the u.s. constitution does not provide the option of not conducting an election. in the absence of an election, elected offices become vacant and the succession provisions of the law which usually kick in when there is a death during someone is term of office would kick in. u.s. senate vacancies can be filled in most states by governors on a temporary basis. u.s. house seats that go vacant must be filled in vacancy elections. there is a line of succession to the presidency defined by law involving a few key congressional leaders and the cabinet. 	
what is a novel coronavirus  answer a novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified. the virus causing coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19 , is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold. a diagnosis with coronavirus 229e, nl63, oc43, or hku1 is not the same as a covid-19 diagnosis. patients with covid-19 will be evaluated and cared for differently than patients with common coronavirus diagnosis.	
this question comes about from another virology question concerning the common cold  would being infected with every kind of cold virus strain at once be a good immunization or dangerous  .  the original edit stated that there are over 200 different viruses which cause the common cold, and after reading the linked wikipedia article, it said just under the intro panel  the bit with a representation of a virus  what i believed to confirm my initial thought, that it is virus strains not different viruses.    well over 200 virus strains are implicated in causing the common cold, with rhinoviruses being the most common.   so i commented the fact and after editing to suit, the author responded with  emphasis mine      chris rogers how do you explain this from wiki the common cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. the most commonly implicated virus is a rhinovirus  30-80  , a type of picornavirus with 99 known serotypes. 29  30  other commonly implicated viruses include human coronavirus      15  , 31  32  influenza viruses  10-15  , 33  adenoviruses  5  , 33  human respiratory syncytial virus, enteroviruses other than rhinoviruses, human parainfluenza viruses, and metapneumovirus. 34  frequently more than one virus is present. 35  in total over 200 viral types are associated with colds. 3    i have not been able to find anything online the difference between the two  if there are any . are the rhinoviruses, enteroviruses, metapneumoviruses etc. involved different strains of the same virus or are they different viruses all together   answer it is often said that a common cold can be caused by more than 200 different  specific viruses   rhinovirus, influenza virus... , which suggests 200 virus species, but there are other levels of categorization of viruses  families, genera,  types,  etc. , so this can be a bit of apples and oranges situation, but in any case, 200 specific viruses does not mean 200 strains.    more than 200 different viruses are known to cause the symptoms of  the common cold.  national institute of health     the common cold is an upper respiratory infection that is caused by  several families of viruses. within these virus families, more  than 200 specific viruses that can cause the common cold have been  identified. the virus family that causes the most colds is called  rhinovirus. rhinoviruses cause up to 40  of colds, and this virus  family has at least 100 distinct virus types in its group. other  important upper respiratory virus families are named coronavirus,  adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus. since so many viruses can  cause cold symptoms, development of a vaccine for the common cold has  not been possible.  harvard medical school    each species of a virus can further appear as different strains.    in biology, a strain is a low-level taxonomic rank used at the  intraspecific level  within a species .  wikipedia    for example, all different strains of influenza virus will be still called influenza virus and the detailed name will be used only for laboratory/research purposes, not for the  public.      every year different strains of influenza virus appear, so every year a new vaccine targeted to those strains needs to be developed to be effective. 	
i am a refugee in south africa with a refugee travel document. i would like to get a canadian visit visa, what should i do    answer online applications for canadian visas start here.   due to the coronavirus canadian immigration is encouraging online applications. be aware that you might be required to provide fingerprints and a photo in person. 	
what should i do if someone in my house gets sick with covid-19  answer most people who get covid-19 will be able to recover at home. cdc has directions for people who are recovering at home and their caregivers, including:  stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.  when to seek medical attentionif you develop emergency warning signs for covid-19 get medical attention immediately. emergency warning signs include :  trouble breathing persistent pain or pressure in the chest new confusion or inability to arouse bluish lips or face   this list is not all inclusive. please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.    use a separate room and bathroom for sick household members  if possible . wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. provide your sick household member with clean disposable facemasks to wear at home, if available, to help prevent spreading covid-19 to others. clean the sick room and bathroom, as needed, to avoid unnecessary contact with the sick person. avoid sharing personal items like utensils, food, and drinks.  	
during these unprecedented times, it is quite hard to predict whether any recently advertised academic jobs will be still available next fall, as some countries might enforce social distancing or lockdown for a whole year. still, many conferences are cancelled or delayed this year, thus getting papers published harder, alongside with academic path progression. i guess that we should be trying to get journal papers accepted instead...  given that i am at the end of a fixed term assistant professor position  looking possibly forward for an open term/tenure track one , i am asking if it will be possible that universities will still be hiring new aps when they might be asked to close until further notice  e.g, uk . is it still possible that some degrees will convert all of their modules into on-line classes  e.g., for computer science , thus allowing universities to get the same number of students they expected in the following academic year  this is still a relevant question - i think -, as the hiring of new junior accademic staff goes hand in hand with an expected increased amount of students on campus. do you have any insight on this, or do you think that it is too early to make any possible educated guess    thanks a lot for your suggestions.  answer the road to the future is never smooth and upward trending. it is bumpy. in the current chaotic situation, expect chaos in the short term. others, such as myself, have experienced career setbacks due to circumstances we can not control. i finished my doctorate at a time when the market for mathematicians was one of zero demand and massive supply. but over time, the bumps eased out for us. perhaps, and we hope, they will for you also. but prediction of the future is an uncertain business riddled with errors among fantastic claims.   unfortunately too many governments around the world are behaving incompetently, making everything worse. but in the long run, climate change will probably have a bigger effect than the current pandemic. and it is also being ignored by some governments.   however, unless we are willing to give up scientific study altogether and unless we are willing to give up educating the citizenry for the future, there is a lot of incentive to continue as we have as much as we can within the constraints that we see. universities have many incentives to maintain their services and their structures. most feel an obligation to faculty, students, society, and science itself. those are strong positive forces.   the incentives, however, need to be met with action. we do not have answers yet to some important questions. one of the questions is how meaningful and complete we can make an education without face to face interactions. another is how we can continue some sorts of research, say lab sciences, without physical labs staffed by researchers. these are hard questions. it will take some innovation. conferences could, in principle, move to virtual space, just as  classroom  education is doing now.   fortunately we are in a better place today than even 20 years ago with fairly ubiquitous internet communication. some of the problems are probably solvable relatively quickly.   but we do not know how many students will seek higher education in the next couple of years. we do not know how taxing authorities will deal with funding education in the face of economic disruption. some, but not all, signs are positive. but uncertainty is high. budgets, needs for faculty, working conditions, etc. all in flux.   i suspect that the careers of people in your situation will be disrupted for a while, as mine was. but i also suspect that the situation will improve for you, though it may take some years to do so. provided, of course, that we do not kill the planet along the way.   try to find a way to be healthy and happy, even if your short term goals must change. try to use the internet to stay connected. try to stay as productive as possible given the constraints. apply for what positions there are, and for positions that you might not have considered if times were better.  	
my children will be home for a few weeks  at least  while schools are closed due to the coronavirus/covid-19. what are some good strategies or options for helping them continue to learn while at home   this is a question that would not normally be on topic at this site, but due to the likelihood it affects many of our community as well as worldwide, it is being posted as a wiki-question. answers are welcome to include recommendations for websites/software/etc. that would normally be disallowed, so long as any relationship between the poster and the site is disclosed, and the answer is a good answer beyond simply a link. explain why the resource is helpful and how to make best use of it.  answer khan academy is a great resource for letting children learn math and science/technology at any age. it allows children to progress through different subjects, includes videos to teach them each subject and then offers practice questions to help them master subjects.  i in particular use the  map recommended practice  feature with my son, who is a fairly advanced math student. you can enter their test scores in, and based on those test scores it recommends the next lessons for them to take to ensure appropriate subject matter and difficulty.  i have been offering my children 2 hours of khan academy per day, plus 1 hour of reading, 1 hour of practice programming  using scratch or python , and 1 hour of more gamified learning  such as prodigy, which is basically pokemon but with math problems needing to be solved in order to do damage to your opponent  . i intersperse an hour of video gaming time and an hour of playing either outside or around the house  but mobile, not sitting time  in order to keep them active.  	
i had a ski trip planned from 14th march - 21st march.  i arrived in the french ski resort at 15:00 on 14th march and by 23:00 the french government went into lock down and ordered all non-essential businesses to close immediately - including ski resorts.   fearing being stuck in the resort, the next morning i changed my return flight from 21st march to 16th march and had to pay extra fees.  i tried to contact my insurance company but they did not answer. i was also in a rush as my accommodation has ordered me to leave, but i do not have proof of this in writing unfortunately.  i am now trying to claim these extra fees back from my insurance company but they are stating that because the fco  uk govt  did not announce non essential travel until the 17th march i have no claim.   the exact wording in my travel policy for curtailment is:    if you have to curtail your trip as a result of the travel advice unit of the foreign  amp  commonwealth office   fco , the world health organisation  who  or similar body recommending evacuation from the country or  specific area in which you are travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased this  insurance and after you have left your country of residence to commence the trip  whichever is the later .   and the reply from my insurance company was:    unfortunately, from the information you provided, it would appear as shown above, the reason you abandoned your trip is not included in the specified incidents for which cover is provided under the policy.   you paid the fee to amend your flight on the 15th of march, however, the fco advice to travel to/from france came into force on the 17th of march. we are therefore unable to consider your claim further.   this is really cheeky of them and they clearly do not want to pay out. i need some advice on the fact that i was already abroad at the time of this announcement - the host country has ordered everything to close and therefore my trip will be cut short.   what points can i argue that my policy is in fact valid and i am due a refund  thanks  answer the wording states    ...or similar body recommending evacuation from the country    so although the fco might not have issued advice until later, the fact that the french government ordered all resorts closed should be sufficient.  so you need to find this advice from french government sources online, write back to your insurance company and be polite but firm and point this out to them. keep your letter short and to the point and state that you had no choice and the country was being locked down and all non-residents ordered to leave. therefore, according to the t amp cs of your policy you expect the claim to be honoured and paid in full asap.  also point them to this statement from the financial conduct authority: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/insurance-and-coronavirus-our-expectations  and this: http://www.choose.co.uk/news/2020/covid-19-insurance-policy-advice-government/  state that you are disappointed with their behaviour and are considering complaining to the insurance ombudsman. and will pursue the claim further if they do not pay.  if they still refuse, then your only option is to complain to the ombudsman and/or pursue them in the small claims court. 	
how are check amounts impacted if someone has a child in 2020     answer tax experts said that since advanced payment amounts are based on taxpayers  2018 or 2019 returns, people who have children in 2020 would receive payments this year that do not take into account the new children. however, the rebates are credits against 2020 taxes, so new parents will get the additional credit reflecting their children when they file their 2020 tax returns next year.	
i am going to post a question related to the current events and i think it could be very interesting.  in the midst of the crisis with the coronavirus, croatian capital of zagreb was hit by a strong earthquake on march 22. since a lot of people escaped their homes in panic, there were fears that the earthquake would cause an increase in the cases of coronavirus since people did not obey the rules of social distancing when they escaped outside due to the earthquake.  the director of the croatian institute for public health, krunoslav capak, said that they conducted some preliminary analyses that suggest that the earthquake did not cause an increase in the number of covid-19 cases. the analyses are preliminary becuase the incubation period of the virus is known to be as long as 14 days, so it is possible that the effect is not visible yet.  regardless of the incubation period length, i was confused by capak is statement because i cannot think of a statistical method i would use to make that inference. does anyone know what analyses was capak referring to  what statistical analyses would be appropriate to determine if there was an increase in the number of covid-19 cases in croatia due to the earthquake   the number of coronavirus cases in croatia can be found here: http://github.com/viborccom/data/blob/master/covid-19/croatia/time-series.csv fbclid iwar2ekrn44wnkwltqjagpfyyjtz01gedrqjupb28d-g kogbnroigwt8jb58  answer you might wonder whether an increased infection rate during a short period could be observed in the figures of reports on infected cases or the death rate.  however, this is not feasible with the data available   the effect get is diluted the effect is likely to be very small in the observations  unless the infection rate is very large .    if there is an increase in transmission then this will occur only in a small group, which gets diluted by the larger total number of zagreb and the surroundings.  also the time of the event is only very short and the contact between people is very local. social distancing is nothe way to go , but it matters with which persons and how long you have contact.   complete strangers in a supermarket are much more a risk than your neighbors  if your neighbors got the virus than you are already at high risk to get the virus as well, being outside is not gonna change this a lot . there is a large multitude of ways how the virus can spread. if we are traveling a lot, moving around over long distances, then the virus is moving a large distance quickly and will infect a lot of people quickly. the local transmission is of less concern  in terms of speed of transmission, and flattening the curve, the local transmission is eventually determining how many people get sick. the long range transmission is determining how fast people get sick  .  ad hoc ergo propter hoc even if there is a change in the trend/growth in the number of infections or the number of death cases, then it will be very difficult to connect this observation to a specific event. there are too many variables that are changing such that it is not possible to draw strong conclusions about causal relationships based on correlations.  the current cases in zagreb and croatia are very small. so the number will be expected to rise, already without an earthquake. this rise will occur with lots of uncertainty  . the information and background information is so noisy that it is not possible to make a lot of sensible predictions.  see the past reports on the cases below. the curve is not a nice straight line and is varying in growth rate and bumpy. it is very difficult to make a specific relation between specific events and this curve. that is because the time between infection, start of symptoms, and start of registration/confirmation occurs with an unknown delay.   time delay also, there is a delay in reporting of the numbers. this makes the above effects count stronger. it will take two weeks before the effect of increased transmission is measurable. but at that time many more events have happened which may cause an effect as well. and also the time delay is a random value. what happens now in a single day, will not create a sudden peak of a single day two weeks later, but instead it gets spread out over multiple days and becomes less noticeable  and then there are also large high noise levels in the measurements which might be a fourth point .  denominator. furthermore, there is always a few weeks of delay in death registration and reporting. hence, the euromomo mortality figures for the most recent weeks must be interpreted with some caution.      a simple model that shows how the reduction in the long-range transmission is having a strong effect and going on the streets and have local community spread is slightly less worrisome. i used the code from this answer which made used of a  r 0  for short distance transmission and a  r 1  for long distance transmission. i did two computations, one with  r 1   0.25 , r 0   2.25  and one with one with  r 1   0 , r 0   2.5 . the total reproduction rate,  2.5 , is the same, but the models deviate quickly once the infection reaches the edges of the neighborhood.    in the netherlands the officials were counting on a very specific rise of cases in the intensive care. now... they are surprised that it did not turn out to be that specific number and it is a larger number than predicted  they were expecting 1600 people in the intensive care at some date, and not this is gonna happen a week earlier than expected   me... i am surprised that they are surprised about the number turning out to be different. these sort of predictions should have been made with a very wide confidence interval indicating that there is very little certainty about the forecasts. 	
how to protect yourself from covid-19 answer as covid-19 is spread through droplets, it can reach us through the air. therefore, maintain social distancing, which means remaining 6 feet away from others. ideally, you should not touch any surface on which droplets may have landed. the best way to protect yourself from exposed surfaces is to wash your hands frequently with soap and water for a count of 20. the children is book coronavirus you can not scare me teaches kids through pictures and rhyme:    i wash my hands throughout the day/ and count from one to twenty/ the palms, the backs, the fingernails/ with soap and water plenty.    coronavirus you can not scare me written by the author  the best way to ensure you are doing all the above is to stay home if you can. talk to your friends and family on the phone, social media, skype or zoom.	
how is it transmitted  answer the first cases of covid-19 were believed to be linked to a live-animal market in china, but the virus has since been spreading from person to person.  person-to-person transmission is most likely between people in close contact, about 6 feet. when a person infected with novel coronavirus sneezes or coughs, respiratory droplets could land on people nearby or could possibly be inhaled by those people.  while the virus can be transmitted by touching objects or surfaces contaminated with covid-19, health experts do not currently believe that is primarily how it is transmitted.	
from a tv news report of a press conference from  i think  the german robert koch institute, i remember hearing an expert declare that he was expecting covid-19 to get less deadly over time. unfortunately, i do not know what press conference it was  i am not sure if it was the robert koch institute -- it might also have been the charite university hospital  and cannot find such a stated expectation on the internet.  why would an expert express this expectation   is it because we are heading toward summer  at least where most covid-19 cases have been reported , or is it a standard pattern, perhaps either due to people is immune systems or due to the virus evolving and becoming weaker    answer while the data are much too sparse and noisy to give an answer about what is happening to covid-19 is virulence  the technical term for the  deadliness  of an infectious disease , or to forecast what will happen to its virulence in the future, there are indeed theoretical reasons that one might expect the virulence to decline in the future.  there is an entire theoretical literature on the evolution of virulence  e.g. see read 1994, or see wikipedia   robert may and paul ewald are two researchers who contributed seminal ideas. the basic idea is that infectious  organisms   including viruses  may face a tradeoff between their ability to produce lots of infectious particles  e.g. by replicating faster within the host  and the length of time that they can stay in the host before it dies or activates immune defenses sufficiently to end the infection. in this case, some intermediate level of virulence may evolve.  evolution of virulence in ways predicted by the theory has been observed in the real world in such diseases as myxomatosis  a viral disease of rabbits . the theory has also been suggested to apply in hiv and syphilis.  the actual forecast can depend on many details of the biology and epidemiology of a particular organism. if covid-19 happened to have a higher-than-optimal virulence in humans at the time of emergence, we could expect its virulence to decline over time. it could also decline if epidemic control was applied in such as way as to differentially affect more-virulent strains  this has been suggested by tang et al. on the basis of the pattern of mutations in different strains, although their logic has also been criticized on twitter by an expert in genetic epidemiology, and now by a more official rebuttal by mclean et al.  with some back-and-forth discussion between the authors and critics .  this explanation does not include the possibility of host evolution, which is theoretically important but not really relevant to covid-19  mdash  it would only happen over many generations, and only if the epidemic was so severe that it was a significant overall cause of death or failure to reproduce ...     tang et al.  on the origin and continuing evolution of sars-cov-2 , national science review, nwaa036, http://doi.org/10.1093/nsr/nwaa036 . read, andrew f.  the evolution of virulence.  trends in microbiology 2.3  1994 : 73-76.  	
when will there be a vaccine  answer a covid-19 vaccine is probably still at least a year away. the university of queensland has developed a vaccine candidate, and it is being tested on animals at the moment. human clinical trials will follow in a few months if the vaccine looks like it is going to be effective. but getting a vaccine to the market is a slow process, because health authorities have to be 100 per cent sure it is safe. even once a vaccine is shown to work and to be safe, scaling up production of the vaccine can take time, so it will probably be a year to 18 months before a vaccine will be available.	
ok. short version, i am stuck on my phd because of coronavirus. my university is giving me an extension to my thesis deadline, but i am going to run out of funding pretty soon.   i am looking at marketable skills i can use to generate a bit of income to bridge the gap, and one of these is scientific writing. i know that there are plenty of people out there who have english as a second language, or who do not express themselves fluently and i think they would be interested in proofreading / light copy editing. i absolutely do not want to become an essay mill, and i do not want to help people to cheat.  can anyone advise me on the ethics of this  where do the boundaries lie   thanks   answer proofreading and even light editing for proper language usage and understandability should not be an issue at all. you are not contributing to the actual work, just to its explanation. advisors sometimes do this sort of thing.   i will assume of course that the theses you read are not fundamentally about the language itself. but proofreading a math paper, say, helping the author to find the right english or german or whatever words and phrases for expressibility is ok as long as it does not change the content or the ideas. i am assuming, also, that the advice you would give is non-technical.   however, the best way to do this is to make suggestions to the author about places in the text that need improvement, rather than doing a markup. this aids the author in developing professional language skills and helps assure that you do not cross boundaries.   if you are in the same field then it is easy to go too far, so you need to guard against that.     i should note that some people take a very strict view about such things and would forbid it.  	
the stores are all out of disinfectant sprays and hand sanitizer. can i make my own  answer yes, you can make both at home.   unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted  if you are trying to kill coronavirus on a non-porous surface, the us centers for disease control and prevention said.   the cdc is recipe calls for diluting 5 tablespoons  or 1/3 cup  of bleach per gallon of water, or 4 teaspoons of bleach per quart of water.   you can also make your own hand sanitizer. the nebraska medical center - famous for its biocontainment unit and treatment of ebola patients - offers this recipe:  what you will need:    2/3 cup 91  isopropyl alcohol  rubbing alcohol   1/3 cup aloe vera gel  mixing bowl  spoon or something for whisking  small container, such as a 3 oz. travel bottle  optional: essential oil to give your hand sanitizer a fragrance    directions: in a mixing bowl, stir isopropyl alcohol and aloe vera gel together until well blended. add 8-10 drops of scented essential oil  optional, but nice . stir to incorporate. pour the homemade hand sanitizer into an empty container and seal. write  hand sanitizer  on a piece of masking tape and attach to the bottle.	
we are about to exchange on a house but have been advised by the solicitor not to. when will restrictions on house purchases be lifted  answer there are currently no formal restrictions on moving house, although the government has strongly advised against it where possible. it says that while there is no need to pull out of transactions, buyers and renters should delay moving so they can observe social distancing and self-isolating guidelines.    if the house you are moving into is empty, it is fine to carry on as long as these rules are observed during the removals process. if the property is occupied, the government is encouraging the buyer and seller to find an alternative moving date further down the line.    mortgage lenders have also been tightening their restrictions, with some requiring a deposit of at least 25 . but this does not affect mortgages which have already been agreed. many lenders are offering customers who have already exchanged the option to extend their mortgage offer for up to three months so that they can move at a later date.    this timeframe may give you some idea of how long all of this could go on for, although nobody knows for sure.    the house buying process differs between scotland and england and wales, but the advice on delaying a move is the same.	
does testing positive mean that i have the virus and that i will develop symptoms  answer yes, testing positive means that you have the virus, but it does not mean that you will develop symptoms. some people who have the virus do not have any symptoms at all.    at the same time, testing negative does not necessarily mean that you do not have the virus.	
is the source of the coronavirus causing covid-19 known  answer currently, the source of sars-cov-2, the coronavirus  cov  causing covid-19 is unknown. all available evidence suggests that sars-cov-2 has a natural animal origin and is not a constructed virus. sars-cov-2 virus most probably has its ecological reservoir in bats. sars-cov-2, belongs to a group of genetically related viruses, which also include sars-cov and a number of other covs isolated from bats populations. mers-cov also belongs to this group, but is less closely related.	
how do cdc is covid-19 case numbers compare with those provided by the world health organization  who  or johns hopkins  answer cdc is covid-19 case numbers include many publicly reported numbers, including information from state, local, territorial, international and external partners.	
how do biologist trace evolutionary history of virus, is there any article on this issue, e.g. how scientist got to know that coronavirus evolved from bat or camel or pig   answer the identification is done by sequencing virus samples and comparing them to reference genomes of viruses. by doing this, you can analyze how closely related an unknown virus is to the references.   for the ncov this method shows it is 96  identical with a known bat coronavirus  see reference 1 for details .  as viruses accumulate mutations due to errors during replication, this method is also used to generate genetic trees of the virus to analyze how it spreads, map routes of infection and also if the virus has been introduced to humans more than once  reference 2 has a nice overview on this topic .  the problem here is: you need to have some known references for comparision, if you have a completely new virus which has never emerged before, this will not help. for this reason there are projects ongoing which collect samples to identify yet unknown viruses  see reference 3    discovery of a novel coronavirus associated with the recent pneumonia outbreak in humans and its potential bat origin dna sleuths read the coronavirus genome, tracing its origins and looking for dangerous mutations virome analysis for identification of novel mammalian viruses in bats from southeast china  	
in europe, such comparisons have been published based on data by google, so i suspect it might available for the us too. e.g.    an analysis here of smartphone location data by the u.s. search engine giant showed that visits to shops, parks or railway stations fell steeply in most european countries between feb. 16 and march 29 as governments sought to slow the explosive spread of the covid-19 disease.    in italy and spain, which have imposed near-total lockdowns on public life, retail and recreational trips were down by 94 . the two mediterranean countries, along with france, saw the sharpest drops in people passing through transportation hubs like railway or metro stations. visits to workplaces were down by more than 60  in italy and spain, in an indication that their lockdowns may turn out to be the most economically disruptive.    to the north, sweden has by contrast sought to minimise disruption to social and economic life while its caseload remains low. visits to restaurants, shopping centres and cinemas, for example, have declined by just 24 . numbers going to grocery markets and pharmacies have fallen by 10 , while trips to the park are actually up by 43  as people head out to enjoy the scandinavian spring. going out for a walk or a jog is up in denmark, estonia and finland too.    the number of people spending more time in residential areas is up by 5  in sweden, whereas in italy and spain it has increased by 24  and 22  respectively as people are confined to their homes.    in britain, which moved relatively late to restrict people-to-people contacts, the impact has been less severe than in southern europe. retail and recreation visits are down by 85 , public transport by 75  and time spent in workplaces by 55 .    germany, which has the third-highest caseload but a relatively low number of fatalities thanks to widespread early testing for covid-19, has taken a less radical approach with the number of people visiting workplaces down by 39 , the data show.   are there such  comparative  statistics available for us states  e.g. did these numbers fall in ny  which was hardest hit by the pandemic  more than elsewhere in the us   answer yes, google has published these statistics at a per-state level for the united states.   to use the example in your question of new york, compared with a state with far fewer covid-19 cases currently, such as west virginia, we can see that new york has seen large reductions in mobility trends across every category except residential, while west virginia has relatively smaller reductions, and in fact a large increase in mobility trends for parks.   this seems to be similar across the board, with the statistics for nebraska, with a similar number of cases as west virginia also showing smaller reductions in most categories, a smaller increase in residential mobility trends, and a whopping 109  increase in mobility trends to parks. new jersey, however, another state which has been fairly badly hit, sees a large reduction in the statistics across the board.  at a first glance, then, this would seem to support your theory that these numbers fell more significantly within states that have been hardest hit by the pandemic so far, meaning that social distancing measures are being complied with and taken more seriously in these states. further analysis would need to be performed on the full data set, including the range of social distancing regulations and enforcement levels in the individual states in order to draw full conclusions.  google themselves state in their reports that  location accuracy and the understanding of categorized places varies from region to region, so we do not recommend using this data to compare changes between countries, or between regions with different characteristics  e.g. rural versus urban areas .  	
can a person cured of covid-19, get infected again  answer can a person cured of covid-19, get infected again  this is a viral infection. like swine flu or h1n1, if you are exposed to it, you can get infected again. but once you get the infection, the human system develops antibodies to fight the virus which is why in case you contract the infection again it is likely to be less severe than before. so, if after getting cured for covid-19, you end up getting infected again, you might have milder symptoms.	
i have heard that home remedies can cure or prevent the virus. answer there is no evidence from the outbreak that eating garlic, sipping water every 15 minutes or taking vitamin c will protect people from the new coronavirus. same goes for using essential oils, colloidal silver and steroids.  some posts have suggested that putting sesame oil on your body or spraying yourself with alcohol or chlorine will kill the virus. that is also false.	
this article shows us that some us institutions rely on very old systems  written decades ago, which is very long in it time perspective :    new jersey gov. phil murphy says that the state is looking for  volunteers with skills that can be used to help in the covid-19  coronavirus outbreak, and one of those skills is knowing your way  around a 61-year-old programming language used on big, old, mainframe  computers.     cobol is an old computer programming language that was first developed  in the 1950 is in conjunction with the department of defense. today,  most programmers prefer and use more modern languages, but there are  pockets where old software written in cobol remains in use,  particularly financial applications and in large enterprises or  government agencies.   i understand that state institutions are typically much slower that private companies when it comes to it investments, but having such old systems seems strange. relying on systems written so much time ago incurs lots of issues which translates to wasted time and money:   initial developments done way before modern software development frameworks were around us it is much harder to find specialists which know the language, but also are able to adapt to such an old software development style inability to act in a timely fashion when changes or maintenance must be performed  e.g. coronavirus outbreak    it makes for banks to be reluctant to rewriting their systems due to big costs and risks, since they must also make profit. but a public institution is not profit based and in theory can easier invest in modernizing their software systems.  question: why did some us institutions not migrate their very old software systems to use somewhat newer ones   note: i am not thinking about big leaps, but at least to work with languages and frameworks that are at most 20 years old, not 60 years old.     while the main arguments are related to software development risks, i am interested in the political aspect of the  why , since we are talking about public institutions making the decision to partially / totally rewrite some systems. such aspects might be related to the size of projects or quality of management in the public sector.  answer it is not just us institutions, there are many countries, institutions - including banks - and companies running on ancient software and hardware.  there are multiple reasons for that:  first, from the business standpoint, replacing software costs money. why spend money to replace something that already meets requirements  if you have software a that does what you want, already exists and is  free , since you already own it, and software b, which does not exist yet, costs years of development time, probably requires new hardware and has the associated costs for all of that, which would your boss or your  often very much non-technical  boss  is boss approve  what would a government employee with a tight budget approve  what would a politician calling for less government spending approve   secondly, the exact workings of the system are often lost in time. no one actually knows what the system does exactly, but it interfaces with dozens of other systems through apis that are equally unknown, obscure or deprecated. creating a specification for such a system that a contractor/contracted company can work with is difficult, if not impossible. there is a huge risk that the resulting system will not replicate the behavior of the old system and stuff will stop working. it might do things like round .5 up instead of rounding to even like the old system, which could cause all the bills or transactions to suddenly be off by 1 cent compared to the previous system. in government, a broken system could mean that the unemployed might not get their benefits, the tax payers not their yearly tax payback or any number of things that will lead to an elected politician not being reelected. politicians like being reelected, so even if they understand the technical need, which is rare anyways, they might avoid the risks for political reasons. often there were attempts at replacing the system, which then failed and then those failures get pointed at whenever someone proposes replacing the system.  thirdly, the old systems usually have a very bad user interface. a new system will have a shiny, new interface, sometimes because creating the old interface would not even be feasible in a new application. this requires training people. people that have worked in the company or institution for 40-50 years and are very set in their ways. those people often have a lot of blocking power, which can completely halt development on the new system, because their requirements, i.e.  do not change anything,  are not met. they are usually also very hard to fire and replace, so the institution has to hire new people without firing them, which requires a bigger budget, which comes back to the first point.  in summary, as technical people we might understand that those systems will someday inevitably go  poof  and everything will break down catastrophically. other people either do not know that it can happen, or they just hope that it will happen after their time, because in the end no one wants to pay the money, take the risk and take the blame for a project that will probably fail. 	
what is the current policy on birthing partners  answer expectant mothers should be encouraged to have a birth partner with them during labour and birth, the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists says, unless the partner is showing symptoms of coronavirus.  as local trusts may place restrictions on visitors, partners may not be able to go to antenatal appointments, or stay with women on antenatal or postnatal wards. but this does not mean they cannot attend the birth, as long as they feel well.  some nhs trusts will allow only one birth partner to be in attendance, where previously they had allowed two. there were reports that others had banned partners  attendance altogether, before doing a u-turn on official advice.  understandably, some pregnant women feel nervous about going into a hospital in case it increases their risk of catching the coronavirus.  maternity units are carrying out some consultations over the phone or via video link, but some in-person visits with the midwife are essential for the wellbeing of the mother and baby, the royal college of midwives says.  it adds that home births may no longer be available in some local areas, mainly due to staff and ambulance shortages, but maternity wards are being kept as separate from covid-19 treatment areas as possible.	
across all of canada, all goodlife gyms, fit4less gyms, university gyms, and presumably other gyms are closed, and for a long time.  i am training for a powerlifting competition and do not have my own 20kg bar and certainly do not have 200kg worth of plates to continue practising deadlifts and squats.  what is the best way to continue making progress on strength for deadlifts and squats   answer i am sorry, but realistically, you can not.  that being said, if you look at the range of different  fitness  qualities  endurance, power, strength, flexibility, etc , strength is generally the last one to go, and it is also one of the easiest to get back once you have initially built it.  there are some things you can try, there is going to be some carry over from bodyweight exercises to the traditional powerlifts  though obviously not as much as training the lifts . things like dips and pull ups to strengthen the triceps and back. you can do core work because a stronger core is always a good thing. pistol squats, while not the same as a loaded barbell squat, will allow you to keep training your legs.  also, now is the perfect time to address all those little niggles and flexibility issues that you have been ignoring. that tight hip, the knee that aches if you keep it in the same position too long, the shoulder that is a little wonky, everything like that.  fingers crossed, by fixing the little bits and throwing in some bodyweight stuff now, you will be able to come back stronger  figuratively speaking  when you are able to get back to training. 	
regarding the corona virus, why are there many deaths in washington but none in new york    answer most of the covid-19 deaths in washington involve a single nursing home, where the virus spread widely before being detected.  the patients at that facility are in a high-risk category for this disease due to their advanced age  there is no similar cluster of cases at a nursing facility elsewhere in the us, therefore it is not surprising that the mortality rate is quite different so far.  there is speculation that there are far more undiagnosed cases in washington, many of which would be mild cases. given issues and limitations with testing, it is difficult to know what the true rate is. 	
i have heard that home remedies can cure or prevent the virus. is that true  answer there is no evidence from the outbreak that eating garlic, sipping water every 15 minutes or taking vitamin c will protect people from the new coronavirus. same goes for using essential oils, colloidal silver and steroids.	
two academic hospitals in the netherlands  nijmegen and utrecht  just got approval to experiment with using a tuberculosis vaccine  bcg  to try to better protect hospital workers against coronavirus.  i assume that  protect hospital workers  means something like decreasing the severity of the infection.  apparently the bcg vaccine is known to stimulate the immune system. given that information, how exactly will it  protect hospital workers   with or without bcg vaccine, the immune system does not yet have the antibodies against the sars-cov-2  2019-ncov  coronavirus. so, will the immune system, after bcg vaccination, create more or better antibodies or generate them faster    http://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2020/03/will-tb-vaccine-help-healthcare-workers-fight-corona-dutch-hospitals-experiment/  answer bcg vaccination appears to enhance the humoral response to general infection. there is said to be also enhanced response so therefore protection against influenza. the trial above is to see if it helps with a response against sars-cov-2.    there is some evidence that bcg vaccination enhances the humoral immune response to other unrelated childhood vaccinations, essentially acting as an adjuvant. ota et al. reported that infants vaccinated at birth with bcg had, upon vaccination against hepatitis, significantly higher levels of igg against hepatitis b vaccine antigens. furthermore, bcg vaccination given at the time of oral polio vaccine boosting improved the antibody response to polio, indicating an effect of bcg at the systemic level  154 . an australian study of 56 bcg-vaccinated and 52 non-bcg vaccinated infants found that bcg vaccination was associated with significantly higher igg titers against pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide antigens, h.influenzae type b polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid following routine immunisations later in infancy   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc6579862/ 	
i have booked a ticket for future travel but now see the price has come down considerably. should i cancel because of coronavirus and rebook with voucher   answer you can not just  cancel because of coronavirus . if the airline is still listing the flight then you can only cancel on whatever terms you agreed to when you booked.  if your ticket is fully refundable then you can cancel and rebook, if you can actually get the refund. many airlines are refusing to pay refunds at present.   more likely, there will be some penalty for cancelling, which could be part or all of the fare you have paid. even with the price reduction, it is likely that you will end up paying more overall.  if you are hoping to get a full refund  as cash or voucher  then you will have to wait until the airline cancels the flight, in which case there will be no flight to rebook onto. 	
the who was against travel restrictions as they detailed in a press release at the end of february. but in the month past  march  practically every country on earth has instituted travel restrictions, most recently china, which is now afraid of being reinfected from abroad.  so, has the who changed their public stance in any way about travel restrictions by now  i searched a bit, but it seems they have gone mum on the topic of travel, while  of course  strongly advocating for social distancing in general.  aside: the who wants us to use  physical distancing  as the more appropriate term for that.   i have not done anything like a survey on this, but clearly some governments include  minimize travel  in the physical distantincing advice they give, e.g. australia is     government advice for implementing physical distancing has mainly urged people to isolate themselves in space: staying at least 1.5 metres apart, working from home, avoiding gatherings, and minimising travel.   so maybe the who has done the same somewhere in their recommendations and i have missed it.  likewise, there have been at least three  high-profile  publications in science this month on this:   march 6    the travel quarantine of wuhan delayed the overall epidemic progression by only 3 to 5 days in mainland china, but has a more marked effect at the international scale, where case importations were reduced by nearly 80  until mid february. modeling results also indicate that sustained 90  travel restrictions to and from mainland china only modestly affect the epidemic trajectory unless combined with a 50  or higher reduction of transmission in the community.  march 25    it remains unclear how these unprecedented interventions, including travel restrictions, affected covid-19 spread in china. we use real-time mobility data from wuhan and detailed case data including travel history to elucidate the role of case importation on transmission in cities across china and ascertain the impact of control measures. early on, the spatial distribution of covid-19 cases in china was explained well by human mobility data. following the implementation of control measures, this correlation dropped and growth rates became negative in most locations, although shifts in the demographics of reported cases were still indicative of local chains of transmission outside wuhan. this study shows that the drastic control measures implemented in china substantially mitigated the spread of covid-19.  march 31    the wuhan shutdown was associated with the delayed arrival of covid-19 in other cities by 2.91 days  95 ci: 2.54-3.29 .  ...  this analysis provided no evidence that the prohibition of travel between cities, which was implemented after and in addition to the wuhan shutdown on 23 january, reduced the number of cases in other cities across china. these results are robust to the choice of statistical regression model.  it also analyzes, and finds effective  via association , most city-level social-distancing measures:  our model suggests that, without the wuhan travel ban or the national emergency response, there would have been 744,000   - 156,000  confirmed covid-19 cases outside wuhan by 19 february, day 50 of the epidemic. with the wuhan travel ban alone, this number would have decreased to 202,000   - 10,000  cases. with the national emergency response alone  without the wuhan travel ban , the number of cases would have decreased to 199,000   - 8500 . thus, neither of these interventions would, on their own, have reversed the rise in incidence by 19 february. but together and interactively, these control measures offer an explanation of why the rise in incidence was halted and reversed, limiting the number of confirmed cases reported to 29,839  fitted model estimate 28,000  - 1400 cases , 96  fewer than expected in the absence of interventions.    so maybe there is a  wind of change  in the scientific community on this, maybe not, but perhaps it is too early to tell what the consensus might become on this. so i am  holding off  on accepting the answer below for now  based on a non-mention in a march 11 who statement  as rather inconclusive.  answer the who released a joined statement with the icao   on the who website it is dated 11 march 2020 . it does not mention travel restrictions directly. it does, however, stress cooperation at different levels, for example between  aviation and health authorities .   my interpretation is that the who is leaving such restrictions up to the states, at least in their public statements.  	
i am an american jew, and my american college roommate is an expat who has been living in qatar for the last few years. he is catholic. i told him i want to visit him but he has repeatedly warned me that as a jewish person this might be a risky move for me, due to his perception of qatar is opinion of jewish people.   is there any truth to what he is saying   if so, is there anything i can do to still ensure a safe trip    answer no, there is virtually no risk to visiting qatar as a jew, nobody even needs to know you are one since us citizens can visit without a visa and your religion is never asked. you may draw some attention if dressed in full-on hasidic clothing though.  that said, for time being this is a moot point, since qatar has banned all non-citizens from entering until the coronavirus crisis calms down. 	
what is the age range of u.s. deaths from covid-19  answer in the u.s., ages range from an infant less than one year old to people intheir 90s, according to state and local health departments.the illinois department of public health said saturday that  an infantcoronavirus patient younger than one yearold  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/28/coronavirus-update-trump-signs-stimulus-disney-parks-close-indefinitely/2928057001/  in chicagohad died. an investigation was underway to determine the cause of death. there has never before been a death associated with covid-19 in an infant, department director dr. ngozi ezike said.this week health officials also reported that a  17-year-old teen in neworleans  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/26/coronavirus-live-updates-senate-stimulus-us-deaths-donald-trump/5079447002/  died aftercontracting the virus. and a  2-month-old innashville  http://www.tennessean.com/story/news/local/2020/03/26/2-month-old-tests-positive-coronavirus-nashville-tennessee/2915705001/  who testedpositive for the virus could be the youngest patient in the nation, officialssay.however, this range is not conclusive because health officials have notreleased the specific ages of several other patients, and new deaths are beingreported each day.	
today, hungary is parliament voted by 137 to 53 to enact the new covid-19 bill, which apparently grants prime minister viktor orban sweeping powers, in order to allow hungary to deal with the crisis. the move, which includes no time limit on the extraordinary powers has been criticised by the council of europe  the secretary general wrote in an letter to mr orban that although  drastic measures  need to be taken:    an indefinite and uncontrolled state of emergency cannot guarantee  that the basic principles of democracy will be observed and that the  emergency measures restricting fundamental human rights are strictly  proportionate to the threat which they are supposed to counter.   although there has been much criticism of the bill, i have been unable to find precise details of the powers which it grants to orban and his government. what specific rights are being curtailed that the bill is critics find objectionable   answer the implications seem to be indefinite near-dictatorship for so long as viktor orban chooses. for those who are interested, an  unofficial, i believe  english translation of the bill can be found here.  under the new legislation, by-elections are suspended and orban can rule by decree, suspend enforcement of laws, and arrest people for years under vague charges of  publicizing distorted facts  or  violating quarantine :    the hungarian parliament on monday voted by a two-thirds majority to allow the government of prime minister viktor orban to rule by decree without a set time limit.    while the new legislation remains in place, no by-elections can be held and orban is government will be able to suspend the enforcement of certain laws. plus, individuals who publicize what are viewed as untrue or distorted facts -- and which could interfere with the protection of the public, or could alarm or agitate a large number of people -- now face several years in jail.   though advertised as  emergency powers , these new powers will last indefinitely and can only be removed with the approval of the president:    the new rules can only be lifted with another two-thirds vote of the parliament and a presidential signature    hungary is viktor orban wins vote to rule by decree - politico   the new york times provides similar information:    in hungary, a new law has granted prime minister viktor orban the power to sidestep parliament and suspend existing laws. mr. orban, who declared a state of emergency this month, now has the sole power to end the emergency. ...    the law will permanently amend two articles of the criminal code that will further limit freedom of expression and penalize people for breaching quarantine orders. it will also suspend all elections and referendums.    under one measure, anyone who disseminates information that could hinder the government is response to the epidemic could face up to five years in prison. the legislation gives broad latitude to the public prosecutor to determine what counts as distorted or false information.    for autocrats, coronavirus is a chance to grab even more power - the new york times     the independent hungarian newspaper index has more detail.  the government can expand emergency declarations indefinitely without parliamentary approval:    the new law allows the government to make these extensions themselves indefinitely, or at least until parliament decides to revoke this authorisation before the state of emergency is over   it gives the government vague and expansive powers to arrest people for  false or distorting  speech:    the new law also introduces a vaguely worded new paragraph to the already existing offence of scaremongering in the criminal code, which opponents of the law say could threaten critical press:       anyone who, under a special legal order, in public, utters or spreads statements known to be false or statements distorting true facts shall be punishable by imprisonment between 1 to 5 years if done in a manner capable of hindering or derailing the effectiveness of the response effort.      and it give them the power to suspend laws and cancel elections:    the coronavirus act also introduces a number of other changes to the constitutional order of the country:      the government will be allowed to take steps beyond the extraordinary measures listed in the disaster relief act and suspend the application of certain laws by decree if necessary and proportional to protect citizens  health, life, property, rights, and to secure the stability of the economy in connection with the pandemic. ...  no local or national elections or referendums can be held until the end of the state of emergency, elections and referendums already scheduled will take place after the special legal order ends. municipal councils dissolved during the state of emergency stay in place until the end of the special legal order.      hungarian coronavirus act passes, granting viktor orban unprecedented emergency powers - index    	
as specified in this link, covid-19 tests start with taking samples from the nose or back or throat of people.  based on growth rate of this disease, i thought what if those samples are not positive  showing infection with covid-19 , but that person has that virus in other parts of his body, because he is in the early stages of the infection.  so is it possible to be infected with covid-19 and have no virus in nose and throat, and if it is possible, how long would it take to be certain that a sample shows the reality and a negative answer can be trusted   answer you are searching for the false-negative rate of these tests. a test resulting in a negative outcome while it should have been a positive outcome.   a recent article stated that most of the false-negatives of covid-19 tests are actually caused by not properly taking the samples from nose and throat. while i cannot find the original article i have got this information from, i have added two other relevant quotes. so yes false-negatives are possible but are likely caused by samples that are not properly collected.    the rollout of covid-19 testing is accelerating as more kits become available. however, a leading pathologist who was director of virology at stanford, points out that the results are not 100  accurate.  it is not that these tests can not detect virus,  said dr. bruce patterson.  my concern is that the sampling involved in detecting the virus can lead to clinical false negatives.  - http://abc7news.com/6053940/   also, the false-negative rate can vary based on the test method used and its quality and accuracy.    covid-19 tests are new, and assessing their accuracy is challenging. pcr tests may produce false negatives, failing to identify evidence of sars-cov-2. sometimes false negatives result from human error or problems with the procedure. giving the test too early or late, for example, can lead to a false negative. - http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/coronavirus-testing accuracy  	
do i need to stock essential items  answer do i need to stock essential items  no. you do not need to stock essential items. there is enough stock available in the market and hoarding it will not be useful.	
i can not access my contraceptive method of choice. what do you advise  answer if you cannot access your contraceptive method of choice - perhaps because it requires a prescription, or because it can only be given to you by a health worker - consider using condoms, fertility awareness-based methods, lactational amenorrhea  if you are exclusively breastfeeding , or other contraceptive methods that are recommended for self-care in your country. depending on the situation in your country, methods recommended for self-care could include the pill or mini-pill, emergency contraception pills, and dmpa-sc  sayana press r  .	
what is the best contraceptive method to use during the covid-19 pandemic  answer all modern methods of contraception help to prevent pregnancy. women and their partners can choose any modern contraceptive method that is acceptable to and safe for them. the best method of contraception is the one that works well for you.there is a wide variety of modern methods, one of which may suit you best. for more information see here. condoms, when they are used consistently and correctly, are the only method of contraception that help to prevent unintended pregnancy and protect against sexually transmitted infections, including hiv. they can be used together with other methods of contraception to protect against both unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.emergency contraceptive pills can prevent up to 95  of pregnancies when taken within 5 days after intercourse, and they can be taken by anyone with or without a health condition	
i have heard several times now, from both people i personally know and from others who have posted their stories online that they do not qualify for covid-19 testing.  from the stories i have heard, to qualify you have to: 1. had contact with a known case of covid-19 2. been to a country heavily infected with covid-19 3. have symptoms that have progressed to the point where hospitalization is required  we now have a reported 1339 cases in the us with likely many more undiagnosed by medical professionals or the cdc.  why, when we are in a state of pandemic and all countries scrambling to get a handle on the virus, are clinics, primary cares, and even hospitals not administering tests to those who exhibit symptoms unless one of these other criteria are met   with an incubation period of 2-14 days, it is entirely possible to have contact with someone who has it and not know you got it from them.  answer there is yet another reason: a test can provide only a certain amount of information gain. if the probability to have contracted covid-19 before the test is too low, even though we know more after the test we may not be able to draw practical conclusions that are any different from the recommendations without test. in other words, if the recommendation goes from  stay at home and avoid contact to others  to  stay at home and avoid contact to others  the test would be wasted.  the covid-19 tests are not suitable for screening purposes  i.e. searching for infections among a population where infections are  still  very rare . they are to sort out who is infected and who is not among high-risk populations where 1 in 10  or more  are actually infected.     you may want to look at my longish answer to how accurate are coronavirus tests  for relevant background.    e.g., with the newly emergency approved roche test, we may say that a positive test result increases the odds of having covid-19 by factor of somewhere around 30 - 100, a negative result decreases the odds by a factor of 1/50 - 1/17.   if you are in a risk group with a prevalence of 8  , the pre-test odds of 8 : 92    increase to  240 to 800  : 92 or a post-test probability of having covid-19 of 70 to 90   with a positive test result, and decrease to 8 :  4600 to 1564 , i.e. the post-test probability of having covid-19 is somewhere around 0.5 to 0.2     these post-test probabilities allow practical conclusions: if you are negative, you are fine and can be let to meet the public, if you are positive you need to go to quarantine and/or treatment.   8   prevalence is my guesstimate for those who are currently  mar 15th  tested in the us  and incidentally, also in germany .  now consider the overall us population. with currently 1629 cases and a population of 328 mio., we would get pre-test odds of 1629 : 328 mio .   the test results change this to    positive result:  27700 to 162900  : 328 mio or a post-test probability of having covid-19 of 0.008 to 0.005   negative result: we do not even need to calculate this, because the pre-test probability was only 0.0005  , post-test probability is lower.   even if we assume that there is a dark number of yet unknown covid-19 cases, say, a factor 20 over the known cases, the post-test probabiliy after a positive test is about 0.2   to 1 .   what would be the practical conclusion  well, probably that the positive case should stay at home as much as possible and avoid contacts. certainly not that they can rely on acquiring immunity against sars-cov-2.  even for low risk groups who have flu-like symptoms but no known contact to covid infected people  or other high-risk situations  the pre-test probability of having covid is too low to allow the test to make a meaningful difference: after all, even if it is  only a common flu , they should stay at home, get well and not infect others meanwhile.  while the pre-test probability is likely to increase  because more people get infected , in order to keep the health system/hospitals working the recommendation will probably not change: stay at home in self-quarantine as long as the symptoms are mild, so that the health system is not burdened by cases that get well on their own.  we may also say that were the whole us population to be tested in that situation, the 32500 true cases of covid would be drowned in 3 - 10 mio. false positve cases.     328 mio - 1629     328 mio 	
it is been mentioned in another answer that    in covid-19, the university of padua, veneto region and the red cross tested the population of vo, italy, 3300 people, to establish the natural history of the virus, the transmission dynamics and categories of risk.   they found  50 of those who tested positive to be asymptomatic  according to professor sergio romagnani.   i am aware that a covid-19 prevalence study on the  entire population of the  diamond princess ship  3,711 passengers and crew  has been published in eurosurveillance. has this comparable  in size  study on an entire italian town been published somewhere    i see a later issue of eurosurveillance has a larger study on lombardy, but it does not mention vo specifically. also, this latter issue has a 2nd study on the diamond princess.   answer as far i know, no. only an open letter has been published so far:  http://corrierefiorentino.corriere.it/firenze/notizie/cronaca/20 marzo 15/dobbiamo-cambiare-rotta-ef23a500-669a-11ea-a40a-86d505f82a96.shtml 	
can i donate masks to hospitals  answer after you get a handle on making masks, you could keep going - and donate the additional masks to health care centers. johns hopkins university, for instance, is accepting donated masks for nonpatient care settings. it asks that masks not be made in a solid color, especially blue or white, which could be confused with medical-grade masks.	
i have the impression that italy has adopted some if not all the  chinese playbook  on covid-19, including a large scale lock-down. that may well be justified given that the number of new cases appears to be declining in china, something that the who has labelled  impressive .  what i want to ask though: is there a more detailed  checklist  of measures contrasting how italy and china is responses to the virus compare  e.g., what precise activities were restricted.  answer i can give some information about the italian lockdown. source: the faq from the italian ministry of internal affairs.  what you can do   go to work  any kind edit: on march 21, as an additional restriction,  non-essential  businesses were stopped . telecommuting / remote working is recommended when possible. travel for work  for instance, plumbers can go visit their clients . commute between different cities for work reasons. go visit the shops that are still open: food, pharmacy/chemists, newspaper is agents, tobacconists, bars and restaurants on motorways, some grocery and personal item shops, hardware stores, laundries... while doing so, customers must be at a distance of 1 m one from the other. in particular, you can get out to buy newspapers. return to your main residence  wherever you are . go tend to elderly relatives. divorced parents can go visit their children. dispose of trash. walk your dog  edit: in some regions, this was further restricted: one cannot go further than 200m from one is house for this reason , or take it to the vet for urgent matters. go running or practicing  individual  sports  edit: in some regions, this was further restricted: one cannot go further than 200m from one is house for this reason . use a bike for an authorized purpose  e.g., as a sport, or to commute . there is no limitation to the number, length, or frequency of outside trips, as long as they are all for authorized reasons.   what you cannot do   if you have fever or other symptoms it is  strongly recommended  to stay at home. go to a secondary place of residence such as a a holiday home. go for a walk without any other purpose. all kind of gatherings: discos, cinemas, pubs, theaters, etc. are closed. all schools and universities are closed. religious gatherings are suspended  e.g. sunday mass .  non-essential   see above  shops are closed.   what happens to transgressors  police can stop people to check that they are out for a legitimate purpose. transgressors can be arrested  up to 3 months  or fined  up to 206eur , and the violation will enter their criminal record. shops that disobey regulations will be closed for 5 up to 30 days.   numerous violations have already been reported: this newspaper article mentions 46000 violations reported by the authorities and 1500 closed shops in the past week of lockdown.  there have been various appeals from various artists and public figures urging italians to stay at home and respect these measures  see e.g. this youtube search .  comparison with china  i do not have direct experience, but from what i understand measures in china were more severe: for instance this wikipedia article mentions that      in many cities, districts, and counties across mainland china  only one person from each household is permitted to go outside for provisions once every two days, except for medical reasons or to work at shops or pharmacies.   i welcome a similar answer from the point of view of chinese citizens. 	
before the vaccine for german measles was available, girls were encouraged to expose themselves to a friend or acquaintance who had the disease, to acquire immunity, so that they would not end up contracting the illness later on during a pregnancy.  following on from that logic, would it make sense for a person over 60  of generally good health and a non-smoker  to purposely contract covid some time this summer, so as to have immunity next winter   obviously, if the person did that, they would strictly quarantine themselves.   i have understood that social distancing practices are partly designed to smear out infections, so they do not all hit a community suddenly like a tsunami. so, that leads me to think that it would be beneficial for society to have new cases occur in a staggered way.  answer rubella does not generally kill that is why they had those parties lacking a vaccine.  since we are now seeing many icu beds being occupied by victims in their 30s etc, a different patient profile than in china, then it would be like using russian roulette doing what you suggest. 	
from my basic understanding: the viruses causing ebola, sars and covid-19 are all the result of a zoonosis, meanings that the viruses have passed from animals to humans.  so my question is: are all recently  let is say 100 years  emerged viral diseases, with potential for a global epidemic, the result of a zoonosis   answer to my knowledge, yes. a partial list of recently emerged/emerging viral diseases  i certainly could have missed some , with probable reservoir hosts:   chikungunya   birds, rodents  coronaviruses  sars  bats , mers  camels , covid-19     bats    pangolins      ebola and other filoviruses  marburg :  bats   hendra, nipah  bats  ross river virus   various mammals  hiv  primates  influenza  h1n1, avian   birds/pigs  monkeypox  monkeys, duh  also rodents  west nile virus   birds  zika      a wide range of animals in west africa     starred examples are vector-borne  so perhaps of slightly lower concern - might not fit your criterion of  capable of causing a global pandemic  .  omitted:    older zoonotic viruses  rabies, dengue, hepatitis, ...  non-viral zoonoses  malaria, plague, anthrax    a list of zoonoses  another from us cdc  more generally, the only other place an emerging virus could come from would be from mutation or recombination of existing human viruses. i am not aware of such an example. 	
what can i do to protect myself and prevent the spread of disease  answer protection measures for everyonestay aware of the latest information on the covid-19 outbreak, available on the who website and through your national and local public health authority. many countries around the world have seen cases of covid-19 and several have seen outbreaks. authorities in china and some other countries have succeeded in slowing or stopping their outbreaks. however, the situation is unpredictable so check regularly for the latest news.you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water.why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing.why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth.why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately.why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority.why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.keep up to date on thelatest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 isspreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older personor have diabetes, heart or lung disease.why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas. protection measures for persons who are in or have recently visited  past 14 days  areas where covid-19 is spreadingfollow the guidanceoutlined above  protectionmeasures for everyone  self-isolate by staying at home if you begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache, low grade fever  37.3 c or above  and slight runny nose, until you recover. if it is essential for you to have someone bring you supplies or to go out, e.g. to buy food, then wear a mask to avoid infecting other people.why  avoiding contact with others and visits to medical facilities will allow these facilities to operate more effectively and help protect you and others from possible covid-19 and other viruses.if you develop fever, coughand difficulty breathing, seek medical advice promptly as this may be dueto a respiratory infection or other serious condition. call in advance andtell your provider of any recenttravel or contact with travelers.why  calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also help to prevent possible spread of covid-19 and other viruses.	
want to simply give money  answer  globalgiving  http://www.globalgiving.org/projects/coronavirus-relief-fund/  is a large global crowdfunding community that connects nonprofits, donors and companies. it has set a goal of reaching  5 million in donations. money received will go toward sending emergency medical workers to communities in need, providing medical supplies to hospitals and helping deliver essentials to families.	
can i travel to the united states with dogs or import dogs into the united states during the covid-19 outbreak  answer please refer to cdc is requirements for bringing a dog to the united states. the current requirements for rabies vaccination apply to dogs imported from china, a high-risk country for rabies.	
so when might things begin to get back to normal  answer oh, gosh. well, you know, we are halfway through that 15-day period announced last week asking everyone to hunker down, stay home. and what anthony fauci, the top adviser, has said over the weekend is that the social distancing, all the measures we are taking - they will have an effect. but we just can not quantify the effect yet. i mean, how much we may be slowing the spread here is masked by the significant increase in cases each day, as you just mentioned at the top.  so you know, as testing expands, we are going to get this increase in cases. hard to see the progress here - it is likely going to be much, much longer before life feels like normal again, right  i mean, many schools have extended closures. there will be lots of distance learning going on. many scientists and public health experts watching china as the country lifts its restrictions. does the virus stay under control, or does it start to spread again  we can learn a lot by watching what happens there.	
i am a senior ta helping out my instructor with restructuring the course in light of the coronavirus causing in-class cancellations at our university. we have tools allowing our students to do their programming labs online, and therefore our class can still run, but we still have a lab practical that is a huge part of students  grades, and i personally would prefer that that not be replaced by some generic homework.   would any of you happen to know of ways to make secure environments where a website  in this case, the tool allowing students to do their labs  could be loaded  the student should not be able to navigate to another tab or close full screen, and the website immediately submits code to the server when the time for the virtual  exam  is up.   i have tried searching for examples myself, but i am not sure if i am wording my problem correctly because i do not get any relevant results. i would really appreciate the examples you have. thank you in advance   answer as already outlined in some of the comments, it is impossible to achieve what you want: you cannot control a computer to this extent without a severe invasion that would go far beyond anything that i would allow you to do on my computer due to privacy and security concerns. unless you want to video-monitor students, you can also not prevent students from using a second computer, a virtual machine, or having somebody else working on their computer for them. and even then you need at least two cameras to see everything that the student is doing or that is happening to them and you would have to frequently check that they are working themselves, did not rig the video, etc.  on a more general level, controlling cheating on any exam that is based on limiting resources is already difficult if you do it in a setting that you can control  i.e., your room, your computers, your toilets, etc. . by taking this battle to the  enemy is territory  and limiting your knowledge, you can only lose.  i would thus suggest the following alternative. this is how my programming practicals were done when i was a student. i also successfully applied this to a programming  exam  in a course i co-organised.   the students do the programming practical with no restrictions except time. for example, they may use the entire internet, course material, etc. after they submit the code, there is a short oral exam on the code. depending on the details of your course, you can very this exam in length and relevance, with the extreme examples being:   you grade the code and the oral exam only serves to ensure that the students did not cheat  and may be as short as five minutes . you only check that the code is doing what it is supposed to do, while the oral exam determines the grade and may also contain questions about other aspects of the course and deeper understanding. here, the oral exams may cost more time, but you also spend less time looking at their submissions.  if applicable, also perform plagiarism checks on the code.   some pros and cons of this approach:   you somehow have to organise remote oral exams, but these could be just via the phone, if that suffices to establish the examinee is identity for you. also be prepared that this mode will amplify anxiety, language, and other issues for some students  while it reduces them for others . you may need to modify your tasks to account for full internet access and similar, for example it should not be anything to which a bazillion of solutions exists. depending on your topic, this may be very difficult. the exam is more realistic: except for taking exams, your students will have internet access for the rest of their career and using it properly is also a relevant skill. the oral exam allows you to gauge actual understanding, whereas the purely written exam may be solved by rote-memorising algorithms, etc.  in case of group work, you do not need to worry much about some incompetent student benefiting from a stronger partner.  i am aware that this point does not apply to you  i mention it only for completeness.   	
what is this thing  answer coronaviruses are a relatively broad family of viruses named for the spikes that come out of a virus particle. under a microscope, they look like a crown, or a halo -- like the sun is corona. the current coronavirus first emerged from wuhan, in china is hubei province, most likely from a fish and animal market where humans routinely come into direct contact with animals. the virus probably jumped from an animal -- we still do not know for sure what species -- to a human, a process of interspecies transmission called zoonosis. the virus itself is called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, or sars-cov-2. the disease caused by the virus is called coronavirus disease 2019, or covid-19.	
multiple sources have reported that canada and the united states have announced that the canada-united states border is about to close to non-essential travel in an effort to reduce the spread of covid-19. for example, see http://www.cnn.com/travel/article/essential-travel-coronavirus/index.html     well i think essential is medical, we have military working together, we have industry working together, and again, it is not affecting trade, so things like that,  said president trump.  but just leisurely  let is go to a restaurant and have dinner,  which a lot of people do ... we have ended on a temporary basis.     when was the last time either canada or the us banned citizens or residents of the other from visiting for tourism or other non-essential purposes  my guess is the war of 1812, but i can not seem to find the answer online.  answer never. only in the early wars between france and england, but then it did not mind whether the enemies were in which territory and the border were unclear and the definition of the border was the cause of the war.   how would they have been able to   a  control a border that was the longest of the world   b  of two countries that have not been fully explored  c  and the border was not clearly defined.   even not 1850.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/pig war  1859   and what sense would it make to close a border of 2 countries if you can not control it as there are so few inhabitants like in montana, idaho, wyoming etc   even today it must be rather a symbolic gesture to close the border: highways, railway, airports.   http://www.cgpgrey.com/blog/canada-the-united-states-bizarre-borders-part-2 	
on march the 16th  probably  the nhs held a press conference  youtube link  that includes  paraphrased     we need to  lt u gt  lt b gt delay and weaken lt /b gt  lt /u gt  the peak so the nhs would not be overflown   how  they did not really explain the way behind delay and weakening the peak  anybody could help   answer a summary on how to delay and weake the curve from stanford researcher michael lin, phd-md:   	
i can not get my airline on the phone. what should i do  answer  obviously, the 800 numbers are overwhelmed,  said michael holtz, the founder and chief executive of smartflyer, a luxury travel agency. many airlines in the united states have informed travelers that they could expect longer wait times to speak to a customer service agent. some have redirected callers to their websites and their apps, or asked travelers to leave their contact information for an agent. contacting an airline via social media platforms like twitter and facebook may be your best option right now.  my advice is to use technology,  he said.	
is it advantageous for a younger healthy person to get the coronavirus to build immunity to it  answer no, for several reasons, says peter hotez, dean of the national school oftropical medicine at baylor college of medicine.while a protective antibody is generated in those who are infected, scientists are not yetsure  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/12/coronavirus-reader-questions-answered-symptoms-testing-elderly/5012457002/  whether thatimmunity will last for a short period of time, for years or for life. some saythe possibility of reinfection is very likely.moreover, a  new federal health reportsays  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/19/coronavirus-illnesses-can-serious-young-adults-cdc-report/2874271001/  americans of allages have faced serious health complications amid the outbreak. data from thecdc show that among the roughly 12  of covid-19 cases in the u.s. known toneed hospitalizations, about 1 in 5 were among people ages 20 to 44. anywherefrom 14  to 21  of adults ages 20 to 44 with covid-19 have been hospitalized,the cdc data estimates. two to 4  of cases led to icu admissions, and lessthan 1  were fatal.finally, it is important to avoid getting and spreading the virus. while theyoung may not be the most at risk, they are carrying the disease to those whoare more vulnerable, such as older people and those with underlyingconditions. dr. deborah birx, a member of the white house coronavirus taskforce, on wednesday urged  the millennial generation  to take specialprecautions.  you have the potential to spread it,  she said.	
i read on http://twitter.com/richardbarrow/status/1247761807839657984 s 20:    in addition, for repatriation flights, you often have to check in extra early like 3-4 hours beforehand.    why does one often have to check in extra early, i.e. 3-4 hours early, before the flight departure for repatriation flights     i have crossposted the question at:   quora   answer the additional check in time is needed for all the extra paperwork. repatriation flights are organized and approved by governments to help return citizens to their country of origin. they can not let anyone on board who is simply willing to pay the fare. they must check and double check your passport, citizenship status, etc. moreover, scheduling a repatriation flight is not the same as regular commercial flight operation. the planes often arrive empty, without a regular gate to occupy, without a regular slot to fly and the whole operation can be changed at the last-minute. if you really want to get on the flight then it is best to be there extra early to deal with the unexpected. 	
on my 2019 tax return i claimed my 28 year old girlfriend as a dependent. this makes her ineligible to receive a covid stimulus check. my return was already accepted and i have already received my refund. should i amend my return, remove her as a dependent  would she then be eligible to receive the stimulus check   answer you choosing to remove her as your dependent, or you choosing to not have claimed her as your dependent in the first place when you filed, will not allow her to get the stimulus payment. the restriction is that she cannot get the stimulus payment if she can be claimed by somebody else as a dependent, not that she actually was claimed by somebody else as a dependent. the fact that you have a choice to claim her as your dependent or not, implies that she can be claimed by you as a dependent  i.e. she meets the conditions in the law to qualify as your dependent . in that case, she cannot get the stimulus payment, even if you do not actually claim her as a dependent on your tax return. 	
the us has enacted law h.r.6201 - families first coronavirus response act which seems to mainly tackle elementary/secondary students  food availability, but also expanded fmla among other things. i have seen various posts on facebook that are, at best, outdated or, at worst, straight-up false. some of the posts i have seen state that the us is requiring 2-week paid leave. but the summary of the law makes it sound like that falls to the state is unemployment program. when reading the actual text of the law regarding paid leave, it states that the first 10 days are unpaid  any leave after that is paid. so what does paid leave look like then   for example, my place of business is shutting down next week, march 30th, and maybe subsequent weeks. i am told that i can use pto  of which i have none  or draw unemployment. assuming that covid-19 cases skyrocket in my county and we shutdown for more than 10 days, do i start getting paid on day 11   to further muddy the water, there is an exemption for businesses with fewer than 50 employees. i think this replaces the previous exemption of businesses with more than 500 employees.   if the above is correct, let is say my factory  in kansas  has 150 employees, but is owned by a company  national, but headquartered in michigan  with   500 employees. the company is a subsidiary of a larger, international corporation  i have no idea how many are employed under the corporation .   do i still qualify for paid leave on day 1  day 11  not at all  this is america  bootstraps etc     assume that i am a healthy, essential employee with no children. why we are still shutting down despite being deemed essential is beyond me.  answer the department of labor has a nifty q amp a page  questions 2 and 3 in particular . in short, private sector corporations are considered as a single employer and thus count each employee within the company. if the employee count is greater than 500 the corporation in question is exempt from paid leave due to covid-19  for what kind of coverage a smaller company can expect, this fact sheet also provided by dol states that:    generally, the act provides that employees of covered employers are eligible for:      two weeks  up to 80 hours  of paid sick leave at the employee is regular rate of pay where the employee is unable to work because the employee is quarantined  pursuant to federal, state, or local government order or advice of a health care provider , and/or experiencing covid-19 symptoms and seeking a medical diagnosis  or  two weeks  up to 80 hours  of paid sick leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay because the employee is unable to work because of a bona fide need to care for an individual subject to quarantine  pursuant to federal, state, or local government order or advice of a health care provider , or to care for a child  under 18 years of age  whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19, and/or the employee is experiencing a substantially similar condition as specified by the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with the secretaries of the treasury and labor  and  up to an additional 10 weeks of paid expanded family and medical leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay where an employee, who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days, is unable to work due to a bona fide need for leave to care for a child whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19.     to summarize, paid leave applies if the private sector employee shows symptoms of covid-19, is told to self-quarantine by health care provider, is quarantined by federal/state/local order, or if employee is taking care of a family member that qualifies for one of the above reasons or if employee is child ren  is stuck at home due to school/daycare closures related to covid-19.  federal employees are still covered by title ii of the family and medical leave act, which was not amended by the families first coronavirus response act. 	
how sick will the coronavirus make someone  answer that depends on your underlying health. coronaviruses are not uncommon -- you have almost certainly had several during your lifetime, and at worst you might have called in sick with a common cold. and even if you contract this particular coronavirus, you may show few if any signs. but if your health is poor already -- especially your respiratory system -- this virus is more troubling. many of those who have succumbed have been older, and young children may be particularly susceptible as well. those who become ill will have problems in their upper respiratory tract  those who become severely ill will have problems in the lower respiratory tract, and those can lead to really serious health concerns like pneumonia and bronchitis.	
the chair of my department has very generously offered to try and secure funding for some of the part-time and adjunct professors working in the department as compensation for adapting our originally in-person courses to an online format  this is in response to the global covid-19 pandemic . i currently am an adjunct only teaching one upper-division class at this institution. the catch here is that my chair has asked me and the other part-timers to throw out numbers that we feel are appropriate. i really have no intuition about what to ask for, or to simply respond  graciously  saying that i trust my chair is judgement and allow them to come up with a number for me/us. i do not want to come off as greedy and pick a number they might claim to be inappropriate, but at the same time i feel that it is rather passive to blindly let my chair pick.  for reference, i am a fairly new hire in this department and not really clear about my future there. the chair and the other faculty are very friendly and inviting, so i am not particularly worried about setting off any personality conflicts. just not sure what the appropriate response is here.  answer there are really two parts to the chair is question:   how much additional work have you had to do so far  what additional work do you anticipate going forward  are there any time savings that should also go into the calculation  what is the appropriate renumeration for that work    you should be able to estimate the answer to  1 , and explain where the number comes from. you should certainly include this information in your response to the chair. then, as in the answer by  allure, you can propose that they pay you for the additional time at  broadly  the same rate as you usually expect to get. for example,    hello,    i estimate that i have had to spend 80 hours preparing new material, and  there will be an additional 4 hours work each week going forward.  however, i am saving an hour on travelling between campuses. assuming  this continues for the next 12 weeks, we are looking at something like  120 hours additional work. i think my usual salary works out at around   30/hour.    thanks,   mndifldz   note that all you have done here is state facts, so there is nothing anyone can criticise you for. you leave it up to the chair to do the maths, and decide what they can afford to offer. however, you lead them towards a number that  hopefully  you think is fair.  	
in one of the answers to another question about the corona virus a link was given to this phylogenetic analysis of the virus.  can somebody assist a non-bio type here  it seems to show that the current corona virus split from a virus in bats. and that the same ancestral virus is also ancestral to several other viruses, some in humans and some in bats.   is my understanding basically correct   answer overview the central focus of the tree is to highlight the key biological concern of the new coronavirus, 2019-ncov. the key concern is the genetic similarities to sars epidemic, and relates to the sars receptor.   sars background sars is endemic in bats  your biorxiv tree partly shows that and this tree definitely shows it  and in the 2002 epidemic infected civet cats which then infected humans. more importantly it is then transmitted from one human to another. this is a consequence of the sars receptor been able to exploit the cellular receptors in the respiratory tract of bats, civet cats and humans and use this tissue as a site of replication. the concern is exacerbated because the tree here shows sars independently infected humans on two separate occasions, suggesting the cross-over has an underlying genetic basis, which is part of the  sars lineage .  biorxiv 2019-ncov tree your tree shows the 2019-ncov has a recent common ancestor with sars in comparison to the rest of the betacoronaviruses. this therefore provides some circumstantial evidence the receptor mechanism and ability to frequently crossover from bats and ultimately transmit human to human could be shared with sars. at an evolutionary level  which is what any tree is supposed to reconstruct  it raises the question which common ancestor of sars did the  sars receptor  originate. i would need to draw a diagram to better demonstrate this point, but i hope you get the idea.  the  influenza receptor  the analogy is with influenza virus and the entire epidemiology of influenza hinges around is sialic acid receptor of influenza and its ability to bind on to the cellular receptors in the upper/lower respiratory tract of birds, pigs and humans. the hypothesised mechanism is called the mixing vessel theory and is the classic epidemiological understanding of how new pathogenic influenza pandemics occur. if you replace  birds and pigs  with e.g.  bats, civet cats and humans  you get the idea why this could be scary. we do not the intemediate host of 2019-ncov ... but i speculate there must be one, unless eating cov-infected bats is common in china.  technical details of the biorxiv tree the tree is a nicely diverse selection of the beta-coronaviruses. the authors have rooted the tree using the outgroups of delacoronaviruses and gammacoronaviruses, so it is a good robust selection of outgroups which can be used to correctly identify the direct of evolution of betacoronavirus divergence. in tree theory  its formal name is phylogenetics theory , extensive rooting is good and minimises artefacts.  one of the earliest members of the betacoronaviruses to diverge is mers  middle eastern respiratory syndrome , which form a single  clade   all viruses share a unique common ancestor  and these represent around 50  amino acid divergence from sars/2019-ncov. the selection of mers in the tree from both camels and humans looks good. the selection of other betacoronaviruses looks great, i was not aware of the  ruminant clade  at all involving buffalo, cow etc .. infections and there was an associated human infection. there are loads of bat isolates of the betacoronaviruses throughout the tree, but we eventually arrive at the  sars clade . the authors show that 2019-ncov is an outgroup to the sars clade and shows a close relationship to one  biorxiv tree  or two  this tree  bat isolates. looking at the precise sars clade  better shown in this tree  we can see loads of bat virus associating with sars lineages. we therefore assume the reservoir to sars and likely 2019-ncov is bat, moreover that the single ancestor to both viruses was a bat  it is called a parsimonious hypothesis .   the one thing the biorxiv tree omits, for example with regards this tree, is the diversity of sars and in particularly the two independent origins of sars, which is a weakness of their analysis, particular if this fed into downstream analysis. it is not to say the authors were wrong, but it was uncool.   word of caution my understanding is the divergence between sars and 2010-ncov is around 15  and this is a quite a large amount of genetic divergence, even if both viruses share a most recent common-ancestor, form part of the same clade and receptor peptide motifs. nevertheless there is sufficient amino acid divergence to generate notable differences in epidemiology, clinical symptom and transmission.   mers, sars and 2019-ncov mortality rates it is worth noting that within the betacoronaviruses the mortality rates between difference clinically important viruses is very different. mers has a mortality rate of 40-60 , sars is around 10  but 2019-ncov is  lt 2.5 . the 2019-ncov mortality rate is still important given it has infected more and could potentially infect alot more people than sars. 	
jamaica did a refusal of entry for germany due to covid 19 situation  cf. http://kingston.diplo.de/jm-de/aktuelles/-/2316366   german source . i have booked a flight that goes from frankfurt to atlanta with klm airlines and from atlanta to montego bay with delta airlines. but i booked the complete flight directly at delta airlines.  will the flight be cancelled or do i have misfortune since i am from germany  in theory i could still travel to atlanta ...  or is this question just speculative since it depends on delta is goodwill   answer update 12/03/20: the usa is now refusing entry to anyone coming from europe, for 30 days. so you will not even make it to atlanta.     according to the link to the embassy you provided you will be denied entry to jamaica. this will most likely already be executed by klm staff in frankfurt. this means you will be denied boarding in the first place.  the only exception would be if you are  also  a jamaican citizen. you did not mention when you are flying, so if your flight is only going to be in a few weeks or even days, the situation might have changed completely. then you just have to wait and go an a day-by-day basis and see what the embassy has to say.  as per your suggestion that you could still only travel to atlanta, i suggest you search for  skipping one leg of a journey  here on this site. this usually always turns out bad  especially for a possible return flight which will be cancelled by the airline . since in the us you always have to check your bags again on an international transfer, you could get your bags at least and given the right esta/visa for the us you could leave the airport and wait two weeks there. two weeks would be the minimum period you would have to wait before being allowed entry into jamaica. you would then have to buy a new ticket to jamaica, of course and your return flight would have been cancelled and you would have to buy that one again, too.  with all this said, it might be best to call the airline  delta in this case, since you booked with them  and see if they can give you a  full  refund. 	
can someone get the coronavirus more than once  answer scientists are not sure yet. for many viruses, including the mers virus, patients are unlikely to be re-infected shortly after they recover because a protective antibody is generated in those who are infected. but scientists still need to do more research to determine if this is also the case with covid-19 and how long those antibodies may last.   however, in certain individuals, the antibody cannot last that long. for many patients who have been cured, there is a likelihood of relapse,  said li qingyuan, director of pneumonia prevention and treatment at china japan friendship hospital in beijing.  poland agreed, saying the chance of reinfection is  very likely. 	
there has been a lot of talk about online teaching in relation to covid-19 and campus shutdowns.  this question is not about that though: my question is about what ways online examinations should be treated in counterpoint to written examinations.   i am going to be transferring my course is written examination into an online environment. this examination involved 2 hours of students, with a pen and paper, answering questions both short and long in a typical examination environemnt.  an online exam however cannot be policed. demanding it be anything other than open book is unrealistic. what methods can be deployed such that it is a genuine test of students  knowledge and capabilities   answer first, a two hour time limit might be difficult to enforce or to guarantee, especially if it uses a real-time clock. at some level of scale you may start to find that some students did not get the exam paper or were unable to return it by the deadline. so, i would start by rethinking if a time limit of less than a day is really essential to your exam.   second, you can pre-vet any questions you ask by doing searching yourself online for possible answers and responses. reject questions that have too much online presence, or be prepared for getting that back as answers. presumably the test is not about effective online searches.   third, give up the idea of asking students for facts. that is obvious, i would think, as facts are cheap. but even facts requiring computation, such as in mathematics or statistics can be generated with tools such as matlab or mathematica.   the best sort of questions, i think, are those that require either or both of interpretation and insight. questions about the why of things rather than the what and how are much better. however, these are the hardest to create, the hardest to answer, and are likely to have the widest variation in quality from students. to grade them might require quite a lot of interpretation: does this student show any insight at all into the subject  pass-fail grading can be considered. repeat attempts can be considered.   as an alternative to an exam, you can consider individual portfolio development by students. students write or otherwise create some artifacts according to some criteria. plagiarism concerns come in to play here, of course.   i will note that honor codes can help to a certain extent, though provide no guarantees. and honor codes created in the moment are probably less effective than those of long standing.  	
if a coronavirus patient progresses to pneumonia, what antibiotics if any have proven to be effective  answer no, antibiotics are not effective against coronavirus because the disease is a viral infection, not a bacterial infection.    however, if you are hospitalized for the  coronavirus , you may receive antibiotics because bacterial co-infection is possible,  the world health organization says.   there is no known cure for the coronavirus. researchers are studying whether the antiviral drug remdesivir might work, but testing of that drug just started.  for now, coronavirus patients get  supportive  treatment,  which means giving fluids, medicine to reduce fever, and, in severe cases, supplemental oxygen,  the harvard medical school says.	
i have been reading about the spread of virus and understand comparisons that are being made with the flu. the flu propagates through a population with vaccinated people while a new virus has an unvaccinated population. i would like to understand the limitations of using data from the flu and making inferences to dealing with covid19 given their populations are fundamentally different.  when you look at how contagious a virus is they talk about transmission rates without indicating if the rate is the base rate or the effective rate. the flu and covid19 have similar base rates, however 40  of the us population is vaccinated from the flu. does that mean that the flu actually has a much higher transmission rate in un-vaccinated people and the average works out to a number similar to covid19 in an unvaccinated population  or does in mean that vaccine does not stop the spread as much as it really stops the disease   answer reproduction numbers  first of all, the basic reproduction number   r 0   refers to the contageous person meeting susceptible people only: the expected number of cases directly generated by one case in a population where all individuals are susceptible to infection. so  r 0  is not affected by vaccination status  or acquired immunity  of the population, but it includes factors such as being contageous already during incubation period  i.e. while still free of symptoms, how contageous a single virus particle is, how long a virus particle lasts under  normal  circumstances, ...   in contrast, the effective reproduction number r includes the effects of vaccination, acquired immunity, behaviour and other measures to reduce infection risk.  the wiki page linked above lists  r 0  for covid-19 as 1.4-3.9 and for the spanish flu of 1918 as 2-3.  now, for the countries that still have just a few covid-19 cases and that are just beginning to take measures to slow the spread, the effective reproduction number will be roughly the same as the basic reproduction number: noone is immune yet, and no measures to reduce the number of contacts yet.     does that mean that the flu actually has a much higher transmission rate in un-vaccinated people and the average works out to a number similar to covid19 in an unvaccinated population    sort-of, but rather the other way round: it means that the effective reproduction number is lower for the flu even though their  r 0 s are similar.   this review paper gives an r of about 1.8 for the 1918 flu and about 1.3 for the  normal  seasonal flu.    vaccination    or does in mean that vaccine does not stop the spread as much as it really stops the disease    that can also happen. of course, the best and intended outcome of vaccination is that the acquired immunity is sufficient to prevent infection. which means that the vaccinated person cannot spread the disease. however, not all vaccinatione we have and use achieve this - we still use them if they greatly reduce the severity of the disease. e.g. even with varicella vaccination 10 - 30   of the exposed to get chickenpox  but even with them, serious disease is avoided .   for the flu, the difficulty is that new strains appear regularly. this is also the reason why flu vaccination is done annually with a newly developed vaccine while e.g. for mmrv, pertussis, polio boosting with the existing vaccine every 10 years is sufficient  immunity actually may last even longer, up to lifelong , but that varies by person, and since many vaccines have not been around that long, we do not know for which that is the case . in fact, flu strains appear so often that the development of the annual flu vaccine includes educated guesses which strains are going to be important for next season. sometimes that guess is off. wikipedia on flu vaccination has a table giving effectiveness  actual reduction of infection risk  between 10 - 60   for different years. even if the acquired immunity by vaccination is for the wrong strain, one may still benefit from cross-immunity    in that the disease will be milder and possibly shorter.      also acquired immunity after a disesase does not always last life-long, e.g. a pertussis infection will achieve immunity for 4 - 20 years only  4 - 12 years for vaccination  	
i have heard several conspiracy theories regarding the origin of the new coronavirus, 2019-ncov. for example that the virus and/or sars were produced in a laboratory or were some variant of middle eastern respiratory syndrome  mers , shipped via laboratory workers.   i am well aware bioinformatics has debunked many conspiracy theories involving infectious diseases, an important one being polio vaccination programs in africa were the origin of hiv, for example here. likewise, numerous conspiracy theories on the man-made origins of hiv were similarly overturned using bioinformatic studies.  do you have bioinformatics evidence that would debunk the current conspiracists about coronaviruses   answer the scenarios are impossible and would be laughable if they were not so serious. the evidence is in the phylogenetic trees. its a bit like a crime scene when the forensics team investigate. we have done enough crime-scenes often going to the site, collecting the pathogen, sequencing and then analysis -  usually neglected diseases  without any associated conspiracy theories.   the key technical issue is coronaviruses are zoonoses , pathogens spread to humans from animal reservoirs and phylogenetic tree really helps understand the how the virus is transmitted.  trees    the key thing about all the trees are bats. bats lineages are present at every single point of the betacoronavirus phylogeny  tree , both as paraphyletic and monophyletic lineages, one example is this tree of betacoronaviruses here. meaning the nodes connecting the branches of the tree to the  master-branch , represent common ancestors and these were almost certainly bat-borne cornaviruses. this is especially true for sars and - here bat-viruses are everywhere.  the tree here also shows that sars arose on independently on two occassions, again surrounded by bat lineages and 2019-ncov has emerged separately at least once, again associated with bats.  finally the tree below is a figure from biorxiv zhou et al  2020   discovery of a novel coronavirus associated with the recent pneumonia outbreak in humans and its potential bat origin  shows the 2019-ncov lineage is a direct descendent of a very closely virus isolated from a bat  ratg13  . this is a really conclusive finding btw.    note, i do not normally present inline images, but it is such a nice finding  hint to reviewers  and biorxiv is open access.  conspiracy theory 1: laboratory made virus  literally it would require someone passaging a new virus, with unknown human pathogenicity, and independently introducing all the earlier passages enmass across bat populations of china. they would then hope each lineage becomes an indepedent virus population before, then introducing the virus to humans. thus when field teams of scientists go around using mist nets to trap the bats, buy them from markets, isolate the virus and sequence it they would find a beautiful, array of natural variation in the bat populations leading up to the human epidemics, that perfectly matches vast numbers of other viral zoonoses. moreover, this would have to have happen substancially prior to sars and 2019-ncov, because the bat betacoronaviruses have been known about prior both epidemics, viz. its simply not feasible.  biological explanation general bats are a reservoir host to vast numbers of pathogens, particularly viruses, including many alphaviruses, flaviviruses, rabies virus and beleived to be important in ebolavirus  i do not know about this  and even important to several eukaryotic parasites. it makes sense, they are mammals, so evolutionary much closer to us than birds for example, with large dispersal potential and roost in  overcrowded  areas enable rapid transmission between bats.  technical the trees show bats are the common ancestor of betacoronaviruses in particular for the lineage leading into the emergence of 2019-ncov and sars, this is seen in this tree, this one and the tree above. the obvious explanation is the virus circulates endemically in bats and has jumped into humans. for sars the intermediate host, or possible  vector  was civet cats.   the theory and the observations fit into a seamless biological answer.  conspiracy theory 2: middle eastern connection  i heard a very weird conspiracy theory attempting to connect mers with 2019-ncov. the theory was elaborate and i do not think it is productive to describe here.  biological explanation all the trees of betacoronaviruses show mers was one of the earliest viruses to diverge and is very distant from 2019-ncov, to the extent the theory is completely implausible. the homology between these viruses is 50 , so its either mers or 2019-ncov. its more extreme than mixing up yellow fever virus  mortality 40-80   with west nile virus  mortality  lt  lt 0.1  , the two viruses are completely different at every level.  what about errors  phylogeneticists can spot it a mile off. there are tell-tale phylogenetic signatures we pick up, but also we do this to assess  rare  genetic phenomina. there is nothing  rare  about the coronaviruses. the only anomaly is variation in the poly-a tail and that is the natural variation from in vitro time-series experiments. basically we have looked at enough virses/parasites through trees, that have no conspiracy theories at all  often neglected diseases , and understand how natural variation operates - so a phylogenecist can shift the wheat from the chaff without really thinking about it.  opinion the conspiracy theories are deeply misplaced, and the only connection i can imagine is its china. however, the chinese have loads of viruses, influenza in particular which causes major pandemics, but that is a consequence of their natural ecology  small-holder farming  allowing the virus to move between reservoir hosts. i have not visited small-hold farms in china, but i have in other parts of the world and when you see them, you get it. the pigs, chickens  ducks .. china , dogs, horses and humans all living within 10 meters of each other.   conclusion shipping large numbers of bats to market, bat soup, raw meat from arboreal  tree-living  mammals such as civets that are sympatric to bats. then consider the classical epidemiology in light of the phylogenetic data, which is very consistent, a single picture emerges that coronavirus is one of many zoonoses which has managed to transmit between patients.   summary the fundamental point is the bioinformatics fit into the classical epidemiology of a zoonose.   , note the bat coronavirus ratg13 predates the 2019-ncov outbreak by 7 years. it is not even clear whether the virus has been isolated, i.e. could just be a rna sequence.   they have found some 500 novel coronaviruses, about 50 of which fall relatively close to the sars virus on the family tree, including ratg13--it was fished out of a bat fecal sample they collected in 2013 from a cave in moglang in yunnan province.   cohen,  mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak is origins  feb, 2020 science magazine, 	
are people with disabilities at higher risk  answer most people with disabilities are not inherently at higher risk for becoming infected with or having severe illness from covid-19. some people with physical limitations or other disabilities might be at a higher risk of infection because of their underlying medical condition.  people with certain disabilities might experience higher rates of chronic health conditions that put them at higher risk of serious illness and poorer outcomes from covid-19. adults with disabilities are three times more likely to have heart disease, stroke, diabetes, or cancer than adults without disabilities.  you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.	
i heard ibuprofen does not work. is that true  answer the health minister of france, olivier veran, recently left global health officials puzzled when he  warned that people  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/health/coronavirus-ibuprofen.html  ill with the coronavirus should stay away from painkillers like ibuprofen and aspirin. he said such nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, or nsaids, could aggravate symptoms of the coronavirus, and suggested that people take acetaminophen instead. because the coronavirus is a new pathogen, there is not a lot known on how patients respond to common medications, but other experts pushed back on the french minister is warning.  it is all anecdote, and fake news off the anecdotes,  said dr. garret fitzgerald, chair of the department of pharmacology at the perelman school of medicine at the university of pennsylvania. the world health organization has said that it is aware of no research showing that ibuprofen should not be taken by patients with covid-19, and the f.d.a. said it was investigating the issue further and would provide more information when it becomes available.	
i have been studying the feynman path integral and its various derivations, and i have run into a bit of a problem. the standard feynman path integral appears as follows:     int  mathcal d  x t   exp left  frac i  hbar  int 0 t d tau   left   frac m2  dot x   tau  - v x  tau   right   right     where the path integral is defined by passing the following into the continuum limit:     lim  n  to  infty  idotsint d  n-1 x   mathcal n   exp left   frac i  hbar  sum  j 1  n  left   frac m2  left   frac x  j 1  - x j   delta t   right  2 - v x j   right   delta t  right      where   delta t   t/n . in this form, we independently integrate each  x j  from  - infty  to    infty , and hence there is no innate notion that the paths considered must be continuous   x  j 1   and  x j  can be as far apart as we please.   in doing readings, i have found multiple sources that claim that the paths we consider are continuous, for example in this paper. in transforming to imaginary time   -t  to -i tau  , this claim makes sense, since discontinuities in the path will blow up the the sum and they will be exponentially suppressed. however, in the form presented above, i am not quite sure where and how we can make this claim.  i have seen the argument that paths that deviate greatly from the classical path will lead to extreme oscillatory behavior from our phase, and hence will be suppressed since they will on-average integrate to zero. however, i do not think i am satisfied with this argument to claim we must have continuity. this shows which paths contribute the most, but i do not think it rules out discontinuous paths. does anyone have insight into this  any help would be greatly appreciated.  answer the paths of a feynman integral do not always have to be continuous, and the first example that comes to my mind is the feynman integral in the feynman-vernon formalism, which is used to study the spin-boson model, among other things.  for the spin-boson problem, the  x t   paths written in your question, are discontinuous. if the spin in your spin-boson problem is a spin-1/2 particle, then  x t   will be either -1/2 or  1/2 at each time  t , and the feynman integral will be over all possible paths, of which i will give four examples below:     x t     -1/2 for all  t .  x t      1/2 for all  t .  x t     -1/2 from  t 0  to  t  5ps, and  x t    1/2 for the rest of the time.  x t     -1/2 from  t 0  to  t  5ps,  x t    1/2 from  t  5ps to  t  10ps, then  x t   -1/2 for the rest of the time.   if you allow all possible flips between spin-up and spin-down between  t 0  and the rest of your desired time for the feynman integral, there will be an infinite number of such paths.   the software feyndyn  feynman dynamics  can calculation such feynman integrals for up to 16 spin-1/2 particles  or 16 qubits, if simulating a quantum computer in the presence of noise  and more information about this whole  feynman-vernon  formalism can be found in this paper  i have given a free link to the pdf rather than the original journal, in case covid lockdown has caused you not to be on a campus where you can download papers easily .  	
how long is the incubation period for covid-19  answer the  incubation period  means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease. most estimates of the incubation period for covid-19 range from 1-14 days, most commonly around five days. these estimates will be updated as more data become available.	
what should i do with my 401 k   answer    watching your balance go up and down can be scary. you may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions -- do not  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/coronavirus-401k-contributions.html   in fact, if your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you are at least saving as much as you can to get that  free money.  many components of the stimulus package, passed on march 27, include changes to rules regarding retirement account withdrawals, borrowing and penalties.	
a january 14 who tweet that has been widely re-broadcast months later by the right-wing us press  e.g. nypost, washexam but not exclusively by them, e.g. bloomberg opinion piece, politico o.p.  said that:    preliminary investigations conducted by the chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel  coronavirus  2019-ncov  identified in  wuhan,  china.   the who is lampooned for this moment by the aforementioned media pieces, but these do not really say when the who came to a different conclusion regarding human-to-human transmission. so when did that happen, and what information source did the who use for the latter determination   answer the who was clearly wary that human-to-human transmission may be a factor at the beginning of january - although their initial disease outbreak news  don  of january 5th entitled  pneumonia of unknown cause - china  states that:    according to the authorities, some patients were operating dealers or  vendors in the huanan seafood market. based on the preliminary  information from the chinese investigation team, no evidence of  significant human-to-human transmission and no health care worker  infections have been reported.   they also note that all patients are being isolated, and that close contacts of patients are being identified and monitored, which indicates that this avenue was being investigated.  further advice published on 10th january also indicated that:    from the currently available information, preliminary investigation  suggests that there is no significant human-to-human transmission, and  no infections among health care workers have occurred.   but again, warned that travellers should take measures such as      avoiding close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory infections   frequent hand-washing, especially after direct contact with ill people or their environment   travellers with symptoms of acute respiratory infection should practice cough etiquette  maintain distance, cover coughs and sneezes  with disposable tissues or clothing, and wash hands .     according to the who covid-19 timeline is entry for january 14th:    dr. maria van kerkhove noted in a press briefing there had been  limited human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus  in the 41  confirmed cases , mainly through family members, and that there was a  risk of a possible wider outbreak. dr. kerkhove noted that  human-to-human transmission would not be surprising given our  experience with sars, mers and other respiratory pathogens.   after who officials from its china and western pacific regional offices conducted a brief field visit to wuhan from the 20th-21st of jan, the latter office published a twitter thread on january 21st stating that as a result of the increasing number of cases of the virus   it is now very clear  ...  that there is at least some human-to-human transmission of  ncov2019 . the thread also states that  more information and analysis are needed on this new virus to understand the full extent of human-to-human transmission and other important details .   additionally, on the 21st of january, the don for the spread of the disease in the republic of korea contained the phrase  the extent of human-to-human transmission , the first don not to question the existence of human-to-human transmission, but rather its extent.  a more formal announcement was made by the who mission to china on the 22nd of january which states that:    data collected through detailed epidemiological investigation and  through the deployment of the new test kit nationally suggests that  human-to-human transmission is taking place in wuhan. more analysis of  the epidemiological data is needed to understand the full extent of  human-to-human transmission. who stands ready to provide support to  china to conduct further detailed analysis.   in conclusion then, while human-to-human transmission was suspected to be present from the initial who don on january 5th, this was not confirmed until after data observed in the field in wuhan by members of the who china  amp  western pacific regional offices was thought to show that human-to-human transmission was clearly a factor. these field investigations took place on the 20th-21st of january, and announcements acknowledging this conclusion were first made on the 21st. 	
i noticed that a lot of countries introducing quarantines and other measures to fight covid-19 also included a ban on people gathering. i am wondering, how can it be enforced   when a government wants to stop people protests and similar actions the ban can be easily enforced, because protesters must put themselves in evidence otherwise their protest would have no purpose. but in the case of an epidemic the ban should prevent also people gathering in a discreet manner in a backstreet or a public garden. no country, not even the authoritarian ones have enough policemen to monitor every single corner.   furthermore if people violate the ban and refuse to pay the fine, what are they going to do  put them in a crowded prison  would not that defeat the purpose   last detail if there are limits in the way a ban can be enforced. how effective can a ban be at preventing public gatherings    edit:   i would like to point out something that none of the answers considers. when a government gives an order, or issues a prohibition, then they have to enforce it, it is also a strong commitment for the state itself. this means devoting a large portion of the police force to it while they could have been employed for other tasks. furthermore the stronger the prohibition the higher the chance that some people may eventually challenge it and lead to confrontations with the police forces.  had there been just a ban on public events plus a recommendation to people not to gather in big number, without such a strong commitment, what would have been the difference in effectiveness and pressure put on the police force and other state resources   answer   i am wondering, how can it be enforced    by the authorities, wielding the law and their monopoly on the use of force. i think society, the mainstream media and social media will also create social pressure and consequences.  obviously the effectiveness of the ban depends on the proportion of people abiding by it. that a minority will inevitably flout the ban does not mean the ban is wholly useless.    furthermore if people violate the ban and refuse to pay the fine, what  are they going to do  put them in a crowded prison    yes, ban violators might be imprisoned.  http://english.elpais.com/spanish news/2020-03-15/members-of-the-spanish-public-face-fines-or-even-prison-if-they-disobey-lockdown-rules.html    would not that defeat the purpose    if the person is not infected, the prisoners are no worse off. if the person is infected, perhaps he or she can be put in solitary confinement or a repurposed toilet paper warehouse. whether the person is infected or not infected, society is better off.   there is no country on the planet that can cope with large proportions of their populations being hospitalised  particularly if they need intensive care or mechanical ventilation , which is one of the things that such a ban is intended to reduce the risk of. 	
are people who get sick immune from the virus  answer the answer is a qualified yes, but there is a lot that is not known yet. if people who survived covid-19 were known to be immune to the virus, they could venture back outside, and into the workforce, until a vaccine became available for everyone else. in particular, health care workers who are known to be immune could continue to care for severely ill people. the quickest way to assess immunity to the coronavirus is a test that looks for protective antibodies in the blood of people who have recovered. but first you have to have the test. labs around the world are working on such tests, but none are readily accessible quite yet.	
recently, german chancellor angela merkel gave a speech about the importance of slowing down covid-19. among her remarks were    the most important thing, the chancellor said, is to slow down the spread of the coronavirus to win time for people to develop immunity   how does that work  can immunity be developed without actually catching the disease or via a vaccine   answer it is hard to know exactly what another person is thinking, but merkel is probably referencing herd immunity.  assuming that people who are infected and recover will be less susceptible to infection in the future  the extent to which is currently unknown , those people have effectively been naturally vaccinated, which can help slow down future spread. 	
can someone who has been quarantined for covid-19 spread the illness to others  answer quarantine means separating a person or group of people who have been exposed to a contagious disease but have not developed illness  symptoms  from others who have not been exposed, in order to prevent the possible spread of that disease. quarantine is usually established for the incubation period of the communicable disease, which is the span of time during which people have developed illness after exposure. for covid-19, the period of quarantine is 14 days from the last date of exposure because the incubation period for this virus is 2 to 14 days. someone who has been released from covid-19 quarantine is not considered a risk for spreading the virus to others because they have not developed illness during the incubation period.	
recently several us cities banned large gatherings of events such as listed here. given that the 1st amendment of the us constitution states     congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or  prohibiting the free exercise thereof  or abridging the freedom of  speech, or of the press  or the right of the people peaceably to  assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.   how is banning such events constitutional with the freedom of assembly  if it were a political protest/gathering would this change   answer   how is banning such events constitutional with the freedom of  assembly    the rights created by the first amendment are not absolute. they are subject to reasonable restrictions as to time, place and manner, especially if those restrictions are content neutral.   restrictions narrowly tailored to protect against genuine threats public health and safety fall within the exception of the first amendment even if they are not strictly content neutral, that is commonly described by the rubric that you do not have a right to falsely cry  fire  in a crowded theater  causing a riot that could harm people .   for example, suppose that a rope bridge over a deep gorge can only support the weight of ten people, and three dozen people want to hold a protest there. a regulation that prohibited more than ten people from engaging in the protest would be constitutional.  even then, however, a lack of content neutrality  e.g., restricting punishment to false statements likely to incite a riot  can not also be a lack of ideological neutrality  e.g. restricting punishment to anti-catholic but not anti-jewish statements likely to incite a riot .    if it were a political protest/gathering would this change    generally speaking political protest/gatherings are still subject to content neutral regulations of time, place or manner, and those narrowly tailored to protect genuine threats public health and safety.  so, for example, if there is a genuine covid-19 risk that public health officials are trying to address, and the regulation of gatherings is not viewpoint or content based, it would be upheld as constitutional in the face of a first amendment freedom of assembly limitation.  but, if the regulation applied, for example, only to republican and not democratic party protests or gatherings, which is a viewpoint or content based restriction, it would not survive a first amendment freedom of assembly challenge.  	
what makes this outbreak so different  answer unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. it seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. and it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions particularly hard -- not just those with respiratory diseases.	
how does coronavirus get transmitted  answer covid-19 can be passed from person to person through droplets from coughs and sneezes.	
on march 3rd, the uk government released a publication detailing its coronavirus action plan, which contains the four-stage plan that will be implemented throughout the country, in all four devolved nations, as the impact of the disease continues to worsen. below is a brief summary of each stage:   contain - identify cases as soon as possible, and attempt to prevent wider community spread of the virus. powers have been given to enforce quarantines and extra funding granted to healthcare centres. the goal is to stop the virus from taking hold in the country. delay - if containment does not work, measures such as closing schools, banning large gatherings, and incentivising working from home will be introduced. the goal is to delay the inevitable spread of the virus for as long as possible. research - if measures taken to delay the virus prove ineffective, focus efforts on researching how to best fight the virus  working out how it spreads, and the best treatment methods. this includes research into vaccine development and deployment. mitigate - the last resort scenario, at this point the government will focus on keeping essential services such as police/fire/ambulance functional, as well as bringing retired and newly graduated doctors to the frontlines.   at the moment, the uk government insists that the country is still in the containment phase, despite the country is chief medical officer and the government is chief medical advisor, prof. chris whitty telling mps as early as march 5th that the uk  was now  mainly  in the delay phase .  at first glance the government is refusal to move to the delay phase, despite 460 total cases, and confirmed community spread, seems stubborn and almost deluded, however, the scottish cabinet secretary for health and sport, jeane freeman told msps after attending a cobra meeting on the 10th that     the timing of moving into the wouldelay  phase, and what measures are  judged to be the most effective in that phase, must be and are driven  very firmly by scientific and clinical advice. understandably people  will be looking to the situation in other countries and questioning  why some of the moves they are taking are not being made here yet in  scotland and in the uk.     ...     timing is critical. if we take those measures too soon, we will not  have the impact we need. if we take them too late, we will not reduce  demand  on the nhs  to the level we need   what is the risk behind taking these measures - i.e. moving into the delay phase - too soon  i note that poland, for example, which has a fraction of the cases of the uk, will close all museums, cinemas,  amp  schools from monday. why might this be a mistake  is there any research that has evaluated this    note that although the example i have given is uk-based, i am also interested in answers that refer to the general postponement of more extreme countermeasures internationally   answer specifically with reference to the uk, an article in the guardian reports that     experts have warned about the risk that if tough measures are taken too soon,  fatigue  may set in, prompting the public to disregard the advice just as the virus reaches its peak.   effectively the argument is that, absent some sort of enforcement squad if people are told to stay in lockdown for a significant period, without a significant scare factor to justify it, then people will assume the risk is actually overblown and start mingling again, just at the moment that many of them are at their most contagious, starting a whole new outbreak in the herd of uninfected. 	
this virus exits the cell using exocytosis after assembling golgi vesicles which contain the virus by fusing with the cell membrane.  in the case of infected pneumocytes, i imagine that the virus could then exit into the alveolus and infect other pneumocytes using again the interaction of the s protein with ace2 or it could exit into the blood and spread to other pneumocytes in a amiliary  fashion like tb. is either or both the main mechanism of spread in the lung  does lymphatic spread play any role   answer we know that early ct scan of patients, even asymptomatic ones, show ground glass opacities and histology of resected lung segments in asymptomatic patients taken for lung cancer resection show alveloli filling with proteinaceous material. patchy changes progress with time and if it were haematogenous spread then we would expect military like spread through the lung which is not what is being described.  the disease is spread by droplets full of virus, and it is likely that the patient in coughing is spreading the virus to other parts of the lung.  but this is speculative as the disease progression has not yet been fully characterised.  pulmonary pathology of early-phase 2019 novel coronavirus  covid-19  pneumonia in two patients with lung cancer http://www.jto.org/article/s1556-0864 20 30132-5/pdf  temporal changes of ct findings in 90 patients with covid-19 pneumonia: a longitudinal study http://pubs.rsna.org/doi/10.1148/radiol.2020200843 	
why do coronaviruses come from bats   i mean, why precisely coronaviruses and not  for instance  herpesviruses  it looks like bats host more zoonotic viruses  per species  than rodents, although they do not develop any sign of disease.  the article above says that rodents host more zoonotic viruses than bats overall  68 against 61 , but at the same time most of the latest pandemics originated from bats.  it also seems that bats could be involved in the maintenance of ebola viruses.  my question is: why did these major pandemics originate from bats and not from rodents, although rodents host more zoonotic viruses overall   we should also take into consideration that human-rodent interaction is usually more likely than human-bat interaction, except for people who consume bats  like chinese people  this would  partially  explain why both sars and 2019-ncov developed in china .  answer   the preponderance of links between bat and human pathogens has led to a debate about whether bats disproportionately contribute to emerging viral infections crossing the species barrier into humans  26-30 . given the diversity of the chiroptera order  figure  figure1 ,1 , we may simply see more bat viruses because there are so many   1,300  species of bats  31 . however, even when accounting for the fact that they make up  20  of extant terrestrial mammals, bats are overrepresented as reservoir hosts of pathogens with a high potential for spilling into human populations  32, 33 . in fact, no known predictors that have been described to impact the likelihood of crossing the species barrier, including reservoir host ecology, phylogenetic relatedness to humans or frequency of reservoir-human contact, explain this pattern  32 . thus, why bats are such a frequent source of pathogenic human viruses remains a tantalizing mystery.   --going to bat s  for studies of disease tolerance  other references that debate whether bats are special, generally conclude that they might somehow be, and argue about causes, include   brook ce, dobson ap. bats as ispecial  reservoirs for emerging zoonotic pathogens. trends microbiol.  2015  23:172-80. this may be the best of the group, going into more detail and including more recent data dobson ap. virology. what links bats to emerging infectious diseases  science  2005  310:628-9.  wang lf, walker pj, poon ll. mass extinctions, biodiversity and mitochondrial function: are bats ispecial  as reservoirs for emerging viruses  curr opin virol.  2011  1:649-57.  olival k, epstein jh, wang lf, field he, daszak p. are bats exceptional viral reservoirs  in: aguirre aa, ostfeld r, daszak p, editors. editors. new directions in conservation medicine. oxford, uk: oxford university press   2012 . p. 195-212.  luis ad, hayman dt, o ishea tj, cryan pm, gilbert at, pulliam jr, et al. . a comparison of bats and rodents as reservoirs of zoonotic viruses: are bats special  proc biol sci.  2013  280:20122753.   	
on apr 9 2020, the fed for the first time can buy junk bonds. that should help  fallen angels.     the federal reserve is making its first-ever foray into the junk-rated corporate bond market, saying it will consider buying noninvestment-grade corporate bonds and exchange-traded funds.    as part of an effort to make available   2.3 trillion in new loans amid the coronavirus crisis, the central bank said thursday that it would buy the bonds of  fallen angel  companies, or companies that get downgraded from investment grade to junk. companies will qualify if they had an investment-grade rating on march 22 and have since been downgraded to one of the top three tiers of the high-yield bond market  bb , bb or bb- .   bloomberg has a title  moral hazard . can not companies  leverage themselves into oblivion and when they all  fail  the fed will just buy their worthless bonds      but the nature of the fed is actions pass the traditional boundaries of the central bank to purchase lower-rated debt and the credit of municipalities, raising questions about its future role.     that does present some moral hazard but a lot will depend on how these programs are executed and how they are unwound,  said stephen stanley, chief economist at amherst pierpont securities.  are they executed in a way that does not unduly benefit people  if the programs are devised effectively, hopefully that will not be the case.    are these reddit comments below correct  i edited r/economics.    let is call it what it is, junk bonds. they do not care about municipalities, this is buying up corporate garbage debt to bail out the rich. corporate bonds was bad enough, junk bonds are straight garbage that was supposed to be risky so why is the fed buying it. this is no benefit to main st. at all. if your argument was the municipalities need to issue debt to function and this helps grease that market, the right answer is that municipalities that cannot clearly afford projects should not issue debt. let is be honest, boomers had so much money they threw it at high yield, enjoyed the gains but now it is garbage so the taxpayer is bailing them out.    this is the end of capitalism and free markets. you could argue that a few banks were too big to fail, maybe they should have. now you are talking about 100 is of companies like best buy and macy is that we are already doing bad so we are throwing cash at them in the form of loans and also bailing out their debt to people who should not have bought it. do not forget how much these ceos and boards make.    i hate to be political but let is remember t arp  actually made money, it was risky but the qe was limited in amount and by assets that were  good . look at the group of individuals in charge now and their financial history, the idea that the fed will get its money back is an absolute joke.    junk bonds are junk because they are risky.  by definition they do not deserve to be saved by the government.    its purpose is to place cash on the balance sheets of organizations that invest in securities like junk bonds in the hopes that they will wake up and see credit risk and roll the cash into the stock market to bolster the president is re-election chances.     source  buying junk bonds is stupid - these shitty companies are all getting free money from the fed while at the same time laying off and furloughing millions of workers. banks and other people with money then buy up ownership in these companies that will not fail  arguably many should , benefiting from rising stock prices while the companies pay out no wages to workers. it is all fake and will prop up the wealthy people who own businesses and leave the rest of america in line for food stamps. there is no reason for this insane rally in stock prices when upwards of 10 million americans are unemployed.   answer this is primarily to allow nationalisation of shale oil. 	
what are the symptoms of covid-19  answer the most common symptoms of covid-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. some people become infected but do not develop any symptoms and do not feel unwell. most people  about 80   recover from the disease without needing special treatment. around 1 out of every 6 people who gets covid-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. people with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention.	
how long does the virus live on different surfaces  a friend gets my paper and shopping, and i have meals delivered - how do i unpack  answer covid-19 is primarily spread in tiny droplets released from the nose and mouth of an infected person as they cough. the most common way for the virus to be transmitted appears to be through close contact with an infected person.  however, evidence suggests the virus can live for an extended time outside of the body, including on surfaces. if you touch a contaminated surface and then your nose or mouth, there is a possibility you could become infected.  a study published last month suggests the virus survives longest on plastic and stainless steel surfaces - up to two to three days - and can live for up to 24 hours on cardboard. however, over that time the virus is likely to become less powerful.  where possible, it is a good idea to either disinfect the packaging with kitchen spray or discard it before washing your hands with soap and water.    for items like a newspaper that can not be washed, the likelihood of transmission is low, but it still makes sense to practise regular hand washing.    bearing in mind the virus is durability, it is also worth regularly disinfecting plastic and stainless steel surfaces such as door handles.	
with all the coronavirus panic, i was wondering what would happen when the share price reaches ps0 for a company, but the actual company itself or their business niche is not that much affected, i.e. the company is still operating and it is far from going bankrupt.  i am not interested in answers that this is a good buy. i would like to understand what happens to existing share holders and the company itself, if shares for the company will hit ps0. is such an event possible   this is for companies traded in the uk.  answer share price is determined simply by supply and demand. changes in the share price typically do not directly affect the company is operations, though there are some ways that it could  e.g. when the price is lower, stock compensation must include more shares to make up the difference .  practically speaking, the share price for an active company never reaches 0. there are always people willing to buy at a low enough price. furthermore, the price reported for a stock is the last price at which the stock was sold. if demand for the stock were to fall to 0, there would simply be no liquidity  no shares of the stock bought or sold , but the share price would still be reported at whatever the last transaction price was. the effect on shareholders would be that they would not be able to sell their stock  because there is no demand . they would have to hold it until someone is willing to buy it. 	
how likely am i to catch covid-19  answer the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there. for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19. covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go.	
i do not have health insurance. what can i do  answer    if you lost your job  and with it your health insurance , or even if you never signed up for a policy, you may have options. some states and employers have loosened the rules around when you can sign up for insurance because of the pandemic. there is also the possibility of continuing your job-based coverage under a law known as the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra  applying for medicaid with your state agency  or getting an individual plan at healthcare.gov.  it depends on your circumstances  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/upshot/coronavirus-health- insurance-faq.html  which route makes sense.	
i have trek marlin 5, today i broke rear hub axle. unfortunately, shops are closed nearby, because of covid-19, i only have solid hub axle. is it okay to use solid axle instead of quick release   answer yes, qr axles can be replaced at will with solid axles for all standard axle hubs.  standard axle means a hub that can accept a generic third party axle. many hubs are not.   be mindful that the common toothed type axle nuts are good at tearing up aluminum and carbon frames. use washers and grease the threads. 	
i am a policy maker. what can i do to make sure people can access contraception and family planning information and services  answer plan and develop innovative strategies to ensure as many eligible people as possible can access information and contraception during this period. increase use of mobile phones and digital technologies to help people make decisions about which contraceptive methods to use, and how they can be accessed. enable health care workers to provide contraceptive information and services as per national guidelines to the full extent possible. this is particularly important where pregnancy poses a high risk to health. expand availability of contraceptive services  including both information and methods  through places other than healthcare facilities, such as pharmacies, drug shops, online platforms and other outlets. this can be with or without prescription depending on national guidelines and contraceptive method. relax restrictions on the number of repeat issues of prescription-only hormonal contraceptives that can be issued. ensure access to emergency post-coital contraception, including consideration of over the counter provision. enable access to contraception for women and girls in the immediate post-partum and post abortion periods when they may access health services.	
what about homemade masks  answer as npr has previously reported, some research has shown that cotton t-shirt material and tea towels might help block respiratory droplets emitting from sick people -- though it is not clear how much protection they provide. another study, of health care workers in vietnam, found that use of cloth masks resulted in greater infection than either those wearing surgical masks or a control group, some of whom also wore surgical masks. we do not yet know exactly how effective homemade masks are, but griffin thinks they are a good idea -- he has even taken to wearing one over his n95 respirator.	
tl dr  what is the relationship between the following    mutation rates  expressed as  mutations per year  for a virus like e.g. covid-19  sars-cov-2 . e.g. this article mentions  the rate looks to be about 24 mutations per year  actual virion replication error rates in a single host cell, measured as e.g. error rates per released virion from the infected cell, i.e.    of mutated released virions  per infected cell.     assumptions  i would assume that mutations happen at a single virion-cell level because there are differences in e.g. nucleotides in rna between:   the virion infecting a cell  e.g. ace2 for sars-cov-2  the released virions from that same single cell   if so, would not one argue that:   replication errors  at the nucleotide and thus released virion level  can easily happen, potentially billions of times during the infection of a single host organism there is no  single successful  mutation or rna variant within a host, rather, we have a distribution of rnas, many of which could be simultaneously transmitted to another host organism    further context  i quote from e.g. this paper:    on a per-site level, dna viruses typically have mutation rates on the order of 10e-8 to 10e-6 substitutions per nucleotide site per cell infection  s/n/c . rna viruses, however, have higher mutation rates that range between 10e-6 and 10e-4 s/n/c   again, would not that mean that a single host could 1  easily generate many mutations of the same virus and 2  pass most of those uniquely generated mutations to another host  if so, how come we can simply say  24 mutations  over time  per year     answer since no one else has done so, just gonna expand on what occurred here in the comments  mostly from  alex reynolds :  tl dr: natural selection exists.  longer version:   mutations/replication errors/whatever will happen in the creation of new virus particles within a host cell. there is some distribution of number of mutational events that will occur as a function of the number of new rna molecules created per cell and the replication error rate. some subset of these rna molecules will be packaged into new particles, yielding a new generation of viruses that get a chance to infect. yes, this is potentially a large number of new mutations per infection event. some large proportion of these new particles will contain non-functional rnas, due to inactivating mutations of one kind or another. most of the new mutations will be worse at being a virus than the originally infecting virus  their immediate parent . so therefore, they will be outcompeted by non-mutated forms. among all those viruses which continue successfully infecting throughout the course of a year, on average we observe 24 substitution mutations in the genome over the course of that year. every transmission chain included in the group of viruses at the end of the year must have remained viable for infection of hosts. in other words, it has survived natural selection.   in population genetics, this phenomenon is known as  mutation-selection balance - e.g. new mutations arise in the population at a rate that is limited by the action of natural selection  at equilibrium .  genotype-phenotype maps  what of course i am leaving unstated is exactly why  ...new mutations will be worse at being a virus than the originally infecting virus...   this is very hard to predict in many cases. in some cases it is very obvious why a mutant is bad at being a virus, if e.g. an essential gene is deleted from the rna genome. but for many single mutations we do not really understand what their effect will be on virus function, we just observe that they drop out of the population due to negative selection.   if you are interested in this question, i recommend looking into genotype-phenotype maps. i know jesse bloom has done some work on influenza in this field, here is one example of such a paper. it is generally extremely laborious to do this kind of work, so relatively little is known about the functional effect of any specific mutation in any specific genome.  hope it is helpful to have all that written out. 	
currently farmers in western countries are warning governments that without foreign workers their fields will be impossible to harvest:     we are in need of a lot of foreign workers,  eystein ruud, a greenhouse farm owner and chairman of the norwegian horticultural association, told the globe and mail.  if we cannot get these workers in the coming weeks, our farmers will not risk putting a lot of plants in the soil. that may affect the food supply.    at the same time western nations are about to face unprecedented levels of unemployment due to the covid-related shutdowns. on the face of it, this seems like a perfect match - people who lost their jobs could now work their local fields, earning a salary and supplying much needed food for the nation. so why is this considered a problem, rather than a blessing in disguise  should not governments be happy they have job openings for the unemployed   i do understand that working the fields is difficult and only young people could do it, but currently a lot of young people lack a job too, so that looks like a manageable problem.  answer i think these countries are in fact approaching this as a problem that has an obvious solution, as you suggest. the issue lies, however, with convincing their populace to work these seasonal jobs, and the inherent nature of seasonal agricultural work.  firstly, the levels of unemployment are not necessarily going to be as bad as you might think, at least in some countries. many western countries, including norway, which you mention, and later, the uk, have implemented schemes which will allow companies to keep employees who have been furloughed due to the crisis on the payroll by covering a large portion of their wages. these schemes do not stop claimants from taking another job, at least in the uk is case, but potentially reduce the need for them to do so.  secondly, the nature of this work means that for this to be a long-term job choice, workers need to be flexible and able to travel around the country. the bbc points out that     one reason overseas workers are recruited for these picking roles is  that farmers require temporary, flexible workers who will move around  the country following the crops.  it is often difficult for local people to fill these roles as they are  extremely busy for a short space of time - for example, two months to  pick apples - with no work for the rest of the year.   so while it might be easy to find workers in one area of the country, it is currently infeasible given the covid-19 crisis for workers to travel around the country as previously. therefore, a much larger number of local workers need to be found in order to meet with local demand, rather than smaller groups of seasonal workers meeting the demand nationally.  additionally, western europeans are unused to this sort of work. according to the independent:    it is fair to say that british workers have turned their noses up at  seasonal farm work in recent years, perhaps partly due to the  availability of other, more secure jobs in more comfortable  surroundings.     it is hard work and the eastern europeans are experienced at what they  do,  says oliver shooter, owner of ae lenton, which runs a group of  farms between skegness and boston in lincolnshire, the centre of  england is vegetable production.     it is not rocket science but it is quite a skilled job that these guys  do,  he says. a top picker needs to know and apply supermarkets   exacting standards for exactly how fruit and veg must look, as well as  how to cut it and pack it. for that they will earn ps12 an hour if  they are good. many farms also provide free or subsidised  accommodation.   the seasonal workers that farms usually rely on, that know their trade and are experienced are unable to be used, so farmers are again being forced to engage a larger workforce than normal, in order to achieve a similar standard of work. this will, of course, entail higher costs, a longer training period, and presumably, a lower yield as mistakes are made.  governments are trying to deal with this problem by pushing the solution you suggest - the independent reports again:    so acute is the need that the government is reportedly readying its  own  pick for britain  campaign taking inspiration from the land army  that tilled the fields during the second world war.   in norway, the government has introduced a scheme which will encourage employees laid off by their employer to work in agricultural roles:    new legislation means that if a worker is laid off and takes up an  agricultural role, he or she will be able to earn both a salary from  the farmer as well as half his or her unemployment benefit.   it is not so much that the solution to the problem is not obvious, it is that due to a combination of the nature of seasonal agricultural work, and the complications introduced by the current crisis, the problem is harder to solve than at first glance. 	
can i get covid-19 from my pets or other animals  answer at this time, there is no evidence that companion animals, including pets, can spread covid-19 to people or that they might be a source of infection in the united states. to date, cdc has not received any reports of pets becoming sick with covid-19 in the united states. pets have other types of coronaviruses that can make them sick, like canine and feline coronaviruses. these other coronaviruses cannot infect people and are not related to the current covid-19 outbreak. however, since animals can spread other diseases to people, it is always a good idea to practice healthy habits around pets and other animals, such as washing your hands and maintaining good hygiene. for more information on the many benefits of pet ownership, as well as staying safe and healthy around animals including pets, livestock, and wildlife, visit cdc is healthy pets, healthy people website.	
i read on http://immigration.go.th/content/visa auto extension  mirror :        the person whose visas has expired from 26th of march 2020 will be automatically extended to 30th of april 2020. there is no need to apply for a visa extension at immigration office for this period and will not be fined thb 500 per day for this case.   does the covid-19-related automated visa extension till the 30th of april 2020 also apply to foreigners who entered thailand visa-free     i have crossposted the question at:   quora reddit   answer yes, according to the following sources.   http://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-thailand-cases-iduskbn21q0gd:    those foreigners who entered the country before the ban was imposed - who had visas, received visas on arrival or under visa waiver programmes - will not need to line up at often crowded immigration centres around the country to extend their stay.    the automatic visa extension has been granted until april 30, according to an interior ministry document. police lieutenant general sompong chingduang told reuters the government could extend this deadline each month.   http://immigration.go.th/content/visa auto extension  now updated with english version of the image :    unofficial translation of the official  notification of the ministry of interior  on the  permission for certain groups of aliens to remain in the kingdom as a special case  from http://mfa.go.th/main/contents/files/news3-20200410-172909-334229.pdf:     	
what is who is position on the use of antiretrovirals for the treatment of covid-19  answer currently, there is insufficient data to assess the effectiveness of lpv/r or other antivirals for treating covid-19. several countries are evaluating the use of lpv/r and other antivirals and we welcome the results of these investigations.again, as part of who is response to the outbreak, the who r d blueprint has been activated to accelerate evaluation of diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for this novel coronavirus. who has also designed a set of procedures to assess the performance, quality and safety of medical technologies during emergency situations.	
should people in their 60s be concerned  are they considered elderly  answer as with seasonal flu, people at highest risk for severe disease and death include people over the age of 60 and those with underlying conditions, according to the world health organization.   starting at age 60, there is an increasing risk of disease and the risk increases with age. the highest risk of serious illness and death is in people older than 80 years,  nancy messonnier, director of the cdc is national center for immunization and respiratory diseases, told reporters in a recent telebriefing.  the cdc recommends that people over 60 stock up on supplies, keep away from others who are sick, limit close contact, wash hands often, avoid crowds as much as possible, avoid cruises and do not fly on planes unless absolutely necessary.	
how were the underlying conditions for people considered higher risk of serious illness with covid-19 selected  answer this list is based on:  what we are learning from the outbreak in other countries and in the united states. what we know about risk from other respiratory infections, like flu.  as cdc gets more information about covid-19 cases here in the united states, we will update this list as needed.	
we have one two year old persian cat with some kidney problems. we live in iran, which these days is not a good place relative to potential coronavirus outbreaks because of the government not giving true information about i. we think we will get the virus some time in the future.   in this condition we would like to know, if we did contract the coronavirus, how can we protect our cat from our infection   if we become unable to protect ourselves, i do not know how could take care of him and who would accept him. i think he must trained to survive in nature, could i train him at this during his time period  if yes, how   answer cats and dogs can carry several types of corona virus  this does not mean the cat or dog will be ill, but it is possible for both dogs and cats to get ill from some of the corona viruses.  the type of corona virus in circulation now, covid 19, has not been confirmed to cause illness in cats and dogs. too little is known as of now to say if cats and dogs can be carriers of the virus or if they can transmit virus to people.  one dog has tested positive for covid 19  it is not confirmed that the dog is a carrier of the virus. it might be traces of the virus on the dog. new tests have been taken and the result is pending.  source for more information about covid 19 and pets http://www.cnbc.com/2020/02/28/a-dog-in-hong-kong-tests-positive-for-the-coronavirus-who-confirms.html  edit: a cat in belgium is the first cat that have been confirmed infected with covid 19 http://www.cats.org.uk/help-and-advice/coronavirus/statement-relating-to-cat-in-belgium-with-coronavirus-covid-19 the cat got the infection from the owner and got ill one week after the owner did,as far as i know both cat and owner are recovering.  there is still no indication that a cat or dog can infect people with covid 19. 	
my plans got derailed. can i get a refund  answer with airlines cutting trans-atlantic flights and cruise lines canceling sailings, travel conditions and refund policies are changing daily. keep an eye on social media and official communications from your airline, hotel, cruise or wherever you booked to stay up to date with any changes to refund policies. and expect long wait times if you do need to contact a company.	
a couple of colleagues suggested in a discussion that the virus that causes covid-19 appears to be made by humans, since nature could not have produced such an efficient virus -- that spreads so fast and whose patients are contagious quite some time before showing signs of infection.  since my knowledge of biology is very limited, my only counterargument for such a conspiracy theory was along the following lines:   there is a consensus that the most probable source of the first infection was in an animal market in china. since that animal market was actually composed of a plethora of animals belonging to various species  mixed with humans , a virus had a bigger chance of evolving a mutation that might infect an individual from another species  a thing that is way less unlikely in the wild since many of those animals do not sit close to each others or next to humans .   clearly, i have made a little story that might be quite far away from how sars-cov-2 infected humans, so i am interested in a scientific arguments to support my cause.  question: what are the main scientific arguments that can be used to debunk covid-19 being engineered by humans   answers that also include explanations more accessible to laymen are greatly welcomed.  answer at the moment, there is very little scientific literature about this, but i found two papers that address the problem and are fairly easy to understand. you can find them in the references. reference 1 is probably the most interesting and is the basis for this answer. edit: it is also interesting to read reference 2 on the origin of sars-cov-2, the article also addresses some of the conspiracy theories.  as far as i can see, there are a few major points taken up by conspiracy theories.  1. sars-cov-2 leaked from a lab, in which research on the bat cov  ratg13  was done:  unlikely, since both viruses share only around 96  sequence homology which translates into more than 1100 sites where the sequence of sars-cov-2 viruses is different from ratg13. the mutations are distributed throughout the viral genome in a natural evolutionary pattern, making it highly unlikely that sars-cov-2 is a direct descendant from ratg13. for comparison, the original sars-cov and the intermediate host palm civet sars-like cov from which it originated shared 99.8  sequence homology, showing a much closer relation.  2. the s  spike  protein from bat sars-cov cannot be used to enter human cells via the human ace2 receptor and therefore has been adapted in the lab:  this is untrue, since a 2013 study of a novel bat corona virus was published showing the ability of the virus to enter cells via the ace2 receptor. see reference 3 for details.  3. the spike protein of sars-cov contains a unique inserted sequence  1378 bp  located in the middle of its spike glycoprotein gene that had no match in other coronaviruses:  as shown in reference 4, the sequence comparision of the sars-cov-2 with closely related other corona viruses shows that this sequence is not unique to the new virus but is already present in older strains. it shows some difference due to inserted mutations.  4. the claim that sars-cov-2 contains four insertions from hiv-1:  the paper claiming this has now been retracted due to severe criticism, and additionally a renowned hiv expert published an analysis  reference 5  demonstrating that the hiv-1 claimed insertions are random rather than targeted.  5. the claim that the sars-cov-2 virus is completely man-made:  to design such a  weapon grade  virus in the lab, the design would usually start from a known virus backbone and then introduce logical changes  for example, complete genes from other viruses . this cannot be seen in the genome of the virus, rather you see randomly distributes changes throughout the genome coming from virus evolution and not directed cloning. it is more likely that this virus originates from the recombination of a bat cov  to which it is closely, but not directly related  and another, not yet known cov in an intermediate host, like the palm civet for the 2003 cov.  references:   no credible evidence supporting claims of the laboratory engineering of sars-cov-2 the proximal origin of sars-cov-2 isolation and characterization of a bat sars-like coronavirus that uses the ace2 receptor is sars-cov-2 originated from laboratory  a rebuttal to the claim of formation via laboratory recombination hiv-1 did not contribute to the 2019-ncov genome  	
note: please do not delete this question. it is not a personal health question. the question has broad utility, in cases where others find themselves in social-distancing or quarantine with need for surface sanitizer, and their only available ingredients are water and powdered oxy-bleach.  i need a quantity of surface sanitizer to decontaminate boxes delivered to the house during the coronavirus19 social-distancing period.   cdc and who say 0.5  hydrogen peroxide solution will destroy coronavirus19. and powdered oxy-bleach a.k.a. sodium percarbonate contains 32.5  by weight of hydrogen peroxide, i will call it roughly a third.  so to make a water solution of hydrogen peroxide using powdered oxy-bleach, i am thinking i need to add enough powdered oxy-bleach  by weight  to equal 3 x 0.5  of the weight of the water. i.e, for a gallon of solution, 1.5  of 8.3 pounds, thus 0.12 lb, or  2 oz.  a friend checked this and agreed, saying:  a 0.5  h2o2 solution in water will consist of  per gallon : 0.42 lbs of h2o2 and 7.9 lbs of h2o. to get 0.42 lbs of h2o2 out of oxy-bleach  32.5  h2o2 , divide 0.42 by 0.325, which   0.128 lbs or 2.0529230769 ounces...   can anyone poke holes in our thinking  or refine it  or suggest ways to make it easier for the lay-person locked-in without access to other surface sanitizers   thank you in advance   answer yes, do use household dilute h2o2 but, in general, do not use commercial percarbonates powders as they can contain an additive to convert the friendly percarbonate into more powerful peracetic acid  paa . the latter allows the otherwise weak bleaching power of the h2o2 to compete with chlorine-based bleaching. however, this comes at a price  safety . hence, the dire warning labels, usually in at least two languages, on oxi-bleach and generic related products.  i quote myself on this subject:    sodium percarbonate is chemically just an addition compound of na2co3 and hydrogen peroxide.    also, while sodium carbonate and sodium percarbonate  basically na2co3 and 3na2co3.2h2o2  are often listed as the main ingredients in typical chlorine free bleach, an additive, taed, which acts as a key activator  see, for example  is not even listed on the label. tetraacetylethylenediamine is apparently commonly employed as a bleach activator in many laundry products  see this . taed reacts with h2o2 in alkaline conditions  referred to as perhydrolysis  creating, in part, peracetic acid. the latter paa is actually preferred over sluggish h2o2 for bleaching. in other words, it is not the h2o2 as the active bleaching agent, but paa created in situ. so, other than possibly misleading implying that eco friendly hydrogen peroxide is the active agent, it is, in reality, paa, a probematic compound with associated health concerns  see marquand, e. c.  et al. , 2007.  asthma caused by peracetic acid-hydrogen peroxide mixture . j. occup. health. 49  2 : 155-158. . here is a msds on an actual paa mix   76-61  water, paa 20-35 , 3  acetic acid and 1  h2o2  available at which is far from friendly but does eventually totally decompose into harmless o2, co2, h2o,...    as such anyone using a commercial percarbonate product should at least be aware of safety issues and that one is likely employing a peracetic acid mix.   however, such more powerful paa based mixtures do have their use and is recommended by the u.s. military as a chemical/biological warfare decontamination protocol  see  development of bicarbonate-activated peroxide as a chemical and biological warfare agent decontaminant  . so, it is up to the user to weigh the relative risks of the situation. 	
are there any changes to who guidance with respect to malaria diagnosis and treatment  answer who guidance remains the same. early diagnosis and treatment are critical to prevent a mild case of malaria from progressing to severe illness or death. countries should not scale back efforts to detect and treat malaria  doing so would seriously undermine the health and well-being of millions of people infected with a potentially life-threatening disease.	
my mother is coming from tehran to chicago  layover at istanbul  via turkish airlines in mid-april. i saw on the news that turkey is closing its border with iran due to coronavirus.  i called turkish airline number and they said:  there has been no cancellation now but it may change . the representative was very vague.  i am wondering does anyone knows about the situation, i am failing to get a straight answer from the airport officials and airline.  answer it is completely impossible to know what the situation will be mid-april. we may be in a global pandemic situation with all flights cancelled worldwide, or it may all have died down.  what you can see is the current status of flights these days, on flightaware for instance.  you will see that at time of writing, it is a mixed bag:   many recent/upcoming flights have been cancelled many recent/current flights are flying or have flown many upcoming flights are still scheduled, but that can of course change at any time.     it looks like turkish airlines are the most susceptible to cancelling the flights altogether in this situation, but it is still pretty hard to tell  and things can change in the coming hours .  right now, it will be completely impossible for you to get a straight answer from anyone, simply because the answer does not exist. nobody has a crystal ball, nobody knows what will happen in a month and a half. 	
what steps can my family take to reduce our risk of getting covid-19  answer practice everyday preventive actions to help reduce your risk of getting sick and remind everyone in your home to do the same. these actions are especially important for older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions:  avoid close contact with people who are sick. stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care. cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash. wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects  e.g., tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles . launder items, including washable plush toys, as appropriate and in accordance with the manufacturer is instructions. if possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people is items.  	
i keep hearing people are recovering from covid-19 virus. is there any chance that same person can become infected with covid-19 for a second time    answer short answer: although there are some reports on this, it is pretty unlikely. it is more likely that patients where released too early from hospital, developed further symptoms later on and got worse, was re-hospitalized, tested again for sars-cov2, which was positive and counted as re-infected.   another possibility is that a false negative test happened, when people got re-tested later the test was positive again and the patient was counted as re-infected. given the rising number of cases worldwide this should become evident pretty soon, if this is a real problem and not an artefact. for the moment, i do not think there is enough evidence for the re-infection of the same patient in such a short time period. if this holds, future will tell.  long answer: there is now an experimental paper, which infected rhesus macaques with sars-cov2, tested if the infection was similar to humans happening in the upper airways  which it was , and re-infected the animals after 28 days with a really high dose of virus  which is much higher than what comes around in our environment , with none of the macaques getting re-infected or showing pathological signs of the infection. see reference 1 for details. this article has its limitations with small sample size and the general questions if the chosen animal model is really comparable with human.   additionally it looks very much like that patients who are recovering do not shed infectious virus anymore. the pcr test however does not discriminate between infectious virus and plain virus rna, so it is most like much longer positive than people are infectious. they also show the rapid appearance of specific antibodies, which would at least temporarily protect against a re-infection. see reference 2 for a nice summary and reference 3 for the original article.  references   reinfection could notoccur in sars-cov-2 infected rhesus macaques people ished  high levels of coronavirus, study finds, but most are likely not infectious after recovery begins clinical presentation and virological assessment of hospitalized cases of coronavirus disease 2019 in a travel-associated transmission cluster  	
what medical interventions are available for covid-19 and influenza viruses  answer while there are a number of therapeutics currently in clinical trials in china and more than 20 vaccines in development for covid-19, there are currently no licensed vaccines or therapeutics for covid-19. in contrast, antivirals and vaccines available for influenza. while the influenza vaccine is not effective against covid-19 virus, it is highly recommended to get vaccinated each year to prevent influenza infection.	
what is covid-19  answer covid-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 2019.	
this question posted recently makes a lot of assumptions, including     the us president is currently making a trade-off of human lives for the economy    or     trump is pro-economy death-permissive stance during the covid-19 crisis   what are the facts backing this claim   answer i can not speak for rebecca is judgement in interpreting those words of trump, but for instance a nyt article says:     our people want to return to work,  mr. trump declared tuesday on twitter, adding,  the cure cannot be worse  by far  than the problem      in essence, he was raising an issue that economists have long grappled with: how can a society assess the trade-off between economic well-being and health   ...      we put a lot of weight on saving lives,  said casey mulligan, a university of chicago economist who spent a year as chief economist on mr. trump is council of economic advisers.  but it is not the only consideration. that is why we do not shut down the economy every flu season. they are ignoring the costs of what they are doing. they also have very little clue how many lives they are saving.   ...      making people poorer has health consequences as well,  said kip viscusi, an economist at vanderbilt university who has spent his career using economic techniques to assess the costs and benefits of government regulations.    jobless people sometimes commit suicide. the poor are likelier to die if they get sick. mr. viscusi estimates that across the population, every loss of income of  100 million in the economy causes one additional death.    government agencies calculate these trade-offs regularly. the environmental protection agency, for instance, has established a cost of about  9.5 million per life saved as a benchmark for determining whether to clean up a toxic waste site.    other agencies use similar values to assess whether to invest in reducing accidents at an intersection or to tighten safety standards in a workplace. the department of agriculture has a calculator to estimate the economic costs -- medical care, premature deaths, productivity loss from nonfatal cases -- of food-borne disease.   so, the argument  in there  is that governments always make such trade-offs/choices, whether they are incredibly open about them or less so.    i should also mention  here, in case comments get purged again  that the nyt article discusses in a bit more depth the finer points of balancing the economic losses from lockdowns with those that would occur in an unchecked epidemic. this topic has been a addressed in some recent economics publications, e.g. eichenbaum et al. discussed in the nyt article  but see also a simpler  lockdowns 101 economics . for the broader economic aspects of the crisis see also  the economics of coronavirus  on econ se. 	
i want to remove or replace my implant or iud - can i do this during covid-19 pandemic  answer removal of long acting methods such as implants or iuds, after the recommended period of use  and routine follow up appointments  may not be prioritized by your country is health system during this health emergency. seek advice from your health provider. if, due to restrictions on movement due to the covid-19 pandemic you cannot have your long acting method removed straight away, it is important to use another method of contraception to avoid pregnancy at this time. there are no medical problems caused by delaying removal of long acting methods such as implants or iuds. do not try to remove the contraception method yourself  wait until you are able to access health care from a trained provider.	
i am a resident of pennsylvania  i have a pa drivers license  and i do not have my passport. i am taking a flight from ohio to california in march. do i need my passport for this flight   or for the return flight    the real id law is the issue. i know pa is late to the game in their real id licenses, so there was supposedly a law that until we get those, we would need a passport to fly domestically. but i have also heard that the law was postponed so i am not sure what the current status is.  answer update march 27, 2020:  to reduce the need for people to go to dmv offices during the coronavirus pandemic, the deadline of october 1, 2020 has been postponed until october 1, 2021. thanks to choster for linking to an initial report by bloomberg news.  several news organizations have been reporting the new deadline at least since yesterday evening. an official press release from the acting secretary of homeland security is dated yesterday, march 26 2020.  the page quoted below has now been updated, as have the quotes themselves. i have also adjusted the answer to account for the fact that pennsylvania is now compliant with real id rather than being on an extension.    have a look at http://www.dhs.gov/real-id-public-faqs:    q: when will i need to change how i travel domestically     beginning october 1, 2021 every state and territory resident will need to present a real id compliant license/id, or another acceptable form of identification, for accessing federal facilities, entering nuclear power plants, and boarding commercial aircraft. the card, itself, must be real id compliant unless the resident is using an alternative acceptable document such as a passport or passport card, or state-issued enhanced driver is license. the act does not require individuals to present identification where it is not currently required to access a federal facility  such as to enter the public areas of the smithsonian  nor does it prohibit an agency from accepting other forms of identity documents  such as a u.s. passport or passport card .   you can use a pennsylvania-issued document  license or id card , even if the document is not compliant, through september 30, 2021. after that, you would need a compliant document or one issued by the federal government  for example, a passport or passport card .  is pennsylvania compliant  does it have an extension  see the main real id page at http://www.dhs.gov/real-id, which shows a map indicating that pennsylvania is compliant. you can choose pennsylvania in the  select a state  box below the map to see the details:    pennsylvania is compliant with the real id act. federal agencies can accept driver is licenses and identification cards from pennsylvania at federal facilities and nuclear power plants.   on or after october 1, 2021, you will need a real-id-compliant driver is license or your passport  or another document from the tsa list, if you have one . 	
why do we need to stay six feet away  what is magic about that number  answer the coronavirus spreads primarily by droplets from your mouth and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. while  a recent study  http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852  suggested that gaseous clouds could travel up to 27 feet, six feet is the approximate range of larger droplets that are more likely to be infectious and is the  distance recommended by the c.d.c  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/how- covid- spreads.html cdc aa refval http 3a 2f 2fwww.cdc.gov 2fcoronavirus 2f2019-ncov 2fprepare 2ftransmission.html . our understanding about this strain of the coronavirus is constantly evolving, though. the  world health organization advises  http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel- coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public  at least 3 feet of distance.	
i have recently purchased a vehicle and was planning on prepaying my auto insurance for the year up front rather than divided into monthly payments.   should i rather put some of that money to paying down more of the principal of the car loan , and pay auto insurance monthly increments as there is no interest associated with this  i have an open-ended loan and i can pay lump sum payments towards principal at any time.  i am also slightly worried about potential cash flow issues due to economic disruption of covid-19.  answer if there are no financial advantages to pre-paying your insurance, then your hypothesis is correct - it is probably in your best interest to pay the loan down with your cash now, and pay the insurance monthly.  but be sure to check on your insurance policy about payment terms - every policy i have ever had  granted, i am in the us  has had a significant discount for pre-paying  the best has been on my current motorcycle policy, where i can save just more than 10  by prepaying . if your policy has such a discount, it may make sense to pre-pay the insurance instead.  if you do choose to make a lump sum payment on the car loan, it probably makes sense to actively communicate with your bank to make sure the payment is applied immediately to principal. some banks may interpret lump sums as your intention to pre-pay the  normal  monthly payments, which essentially means some of the lump sum gets used towards interest, which is not in your favor. 	
i used to travel a lot and take photographs at those places. now borders are closed due to covid-19 precautions and we will be probably ordered to stay at home except some special cases. what are my photography options in this situation   answer first of all: do everything your government tells you to do. follow the recommendations. be rational and do not be careless or selfish   in case you can still move freely in your area:   explore your neighbourhood. you may be surprised what a nearby forest, park or an old quarry can offer. visit places otherwise occupied by tourists  now probably empty . learn something new. change your photography genre to a safer one like from street to birds etc.   in case you have to stay at home:   study photography. learn things you can use in the future. catalogue your pictures. eliminate the mess. now you have time to do that. post-process your older pictures again. try creating new, better versions. try studio/abstract photography.  	
the corona virus appearantly does not like high temperature: high temperature and high humidity reduce the transmission of covid-19 also it seems that higher body temperatures helps the immune system to work better: elevated body temperature helps certain types of immune cells to work better, evidence suggests   should therefore someone who suspect they may have the corona virus or possibly another cold virus and do not experience fever try to elevate their body temperature slightly  say 0.5-1 degrees celsius  by dressing extra warm   this is postulated here.  does this sound plausible to you   answer sars-cov-2 is believed to have spilled over into humans from a rhinopholus  horseshoe bat  reservoir. during flight, bats  body temperature is maintained at levels associated with fever in other mammals. rhinolophus bats are reported to reach skin temperatures of 41 c during flight.  from this review which describes why bats might be special sources for zoonotic viruses  so, this virus is likely adapted to survive higher temperatures than a human host. 	
will isolation help 100 per cent prevention against corona  answer will isolation help 100 per cent prevention against corona  yes. if you and your family have not been exposed to the virus, isolation will keep you protected. and if you have been exposed and recommended self-quarantine, make sure you follow that dutifully to keep other safe.	
i am looking for some urgent advice with how to proceed. my wife is constantly emotionally and physically abusive to both my 3 and 5-year-old. she belittles both, plays favorites, talks about her impending death, threatens them with all manner of scary stories and regularly slaps then on the head or back with an open palm.  i am convinced she has a personality disorder including ocd and npd  i suggested therapy and was told to f-off . she has been drunk while they are in her care on many occasions as well.  she is currently a stay-at-home mum, however, we have had a maid since the eldest was born who bathed and fed them, and now i work from home and do most of the cleaning etc.. she is simply a person who wants to continue her life undisturbed by kids, she still has her friday night  though they can be a midweek one as well  blow-outs, coming home blind drunk and vomiting like clockwork.  i am scared to leave her with the kids as she is extremely lax when it comes to safety. we live on the 38th floor and she has left the balcony door open many times, and now she is not bothered about closing the baby gate and letting the boys run free in the kitchen. her latest act has been to go clubbing and drinking in pubs during this coronavirus outbreak without taking any precautions and coming home completely wasted.  btw we live in hong kong .  i am writing this from a coffee shop as i have been forced out by her gal pals who are over for drinks. i have endured this for 18 yrs now. i want to get advice on how i can proceed  do i simply rock up at the cpa and tell them the situation  why would they believe me  how to prove this  i would give her everything as long as i can care for the boys.  answer the mother does not seem like she will change her ways. some people might encourage you to try to talk to her about her treatment of the kids, to give her an ultimatum, but personally i think this could just make the situation worse. you need to get the kids away from her. the best way to do this would be the legal route, unless you greatly expect that she will happily let you have full custody, not wanting to see the kids for them, or out of spite against you.   any evidence you can get will be very useful. the maid may be able to support what you say, depending on how open your wife is with her mistreatment of the kids. i would also suggest trying to get some video or audio recordings, but you should look into whether these can be used in court if the other person is not aware that they are being recorded.   in terms of the kitchen, i suggest kid-proofing it. try to store any dangerous items out of their reach, and any low cupboards that need to store dangerous items should have childproofing locks. 	
what preventative measures should people take to avoid infecting others that they are in contact with, such as family members, who are more vulnerable  elderly and/or individuals with underlying health conditions  to the virus   in particular, what should be done when someone needs to leave home regularly for work, despite having contact with vulnerable people at home   answer if your relative stays at home without contact with anyone from the outside world, they have zero risk of getting the disease. if a relative living in the house needs to leave daily they risk exposure and getting the infection. the relative at home now has a non-zero risk of getting infected.  if the relative at home is independent then they should be left to live alone, and the working relative move in with someone else. if that is not possible, then another person not known to be infected should move in with her, and the working relative moves out.  if the working relative is the main carer for the relative at home, and the above choices are not possible, then they have to manage the situation as though they already have the virus.  the recommendation is that you are not going to transmit the infection to someone who remains at a 6 foot distance away from you, and if inside that distance for less than 10-15 minutes. so, that stops viral droplets from one person passing to the next.  viral nuclear droplets form when aerosols develop, eg flushing the toilet, so the toilet lid needs to stay down when flushing, and keep windows open. even better still use different bathrooms, or build a composting toilet away from the bathroom shared with the other person. if you are not able to not share bathrooms, then all the surfaces needs to be wiped down with .1  solution of bleach after each use of the bathroom, and left to dry for 10-30 minutes. each door knob needs to be disinfected. there can not be any shared eating utensils. and most importantly the hands need to be washed for a minimum of 20 seconds using a soap/detergent.  even if people live together, studies in china showed that cross infection was not inevitable, but closer to 20  of households had transmission.  http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-stay-at-home-guidance/stay-at-home-guidance-for-households-with-possible-coronavirus-covid-19-infection 	
when the spanish influenza hit in 1918, it struck in two waves. the first wave was typical for a flu virus, targetting mainly elderly people, but the second wave was far deadlier and killed far more young people. how likely is it for something similar to happen with the current coronavirus  also, wikipedia states that people who contracted the virus during the first wave were immune to it in the second wave. i thought when a virus mutates it usually avoids detection, hence why we need to usually get an up to date flu vaccine annually. why was this not the case for the spanish influenza   answer this is a great biological question  it asks a lot about how empirical science is done in the field of modern biology  i am glad we encourage such questions from curious people who want to learn more.  mutations are mostly deleterious to begin with. this means that mutant copies of virus only very rarely survive and proliferate. a virus that is deadlier will already be less likely to reproduce, having killed more hosts.  the current estimated mutation rate of the sars-cov-2 virus is 24 bases per year. of those mutations, those to be most concerned about are those which would mutate the proteins specific to this virus. vaccine development will aim to train the immune system to target those proteins, particularly the s or spike protein.  mutations to those proteins can make potential vaccines less effective. this is why influenza   flu   vaccines, which are produced ahead of the flu season, may not always line up against the more prevalent strains which result.  a recent comment was published in nature, authored by life scientists and epidemiologists, which goes into your question in more detail, as regards to the novel coronavirus:    in this case and that of sars-cov-2, mutations consume the narrative, even though individual mutations seldom become fixed during outbreaks nor modulate complex virological traits. rather, mutation is a humdrum aspect of life for an rna virus. because these viruses employ an intrinsically error-prone rna polymerase for replication, their genomes will accumulate mutations during every copying cycle. moreover, these cycles can occur on the order of hours, ensuring that a diverse virus population will be generated within a single infected host. while this amazing capacity to mutate fuels the engine of evolutionary change, most mutations adversely impact some aspect of virus function and are removed by natural selection.  emphasis added    further, and more to the original point of your question:    these warnings will probably not halt the question as to whether mutations will arise in sars-cov-2, enabling it to spread more efficiently between humans or generate a higher case fatality rate. in response, we can look to the 2002-2003 sars-cov epidemic. large deletions in the open reading frame 8  orf8  region and mutations in the spike  s  protein were discovered during the early stages of the outbreak and eventually dominated the epidemic, suggesting that these were adaptations to humans12,13. based on this observation, some hypothesized that virus genetic changes in part drove the sars epidemic, but this claim is unsubstantiated14. so, could sars-cov-2 adapt in the same way  yes. will adaptation precipitate more deaths  unlikely.  emph. added   	
i am trying to observe the behavior of simple viruses in different environments. i am just looking for simple viruses like the common cold and the flu virus nothing major. is there a way to obtain them    answer first of all, cold and flu viruses are not isimple viruses , and they are not harmless. they kill tens to hundreds of thousands of people every year.   secondly, this would depend highly on the risk group that the virus falls in. the nih sets strict guidelines on who can handle infectious agents. unfortunately, i can almost guarantee you that no one is going to give you even risk group 1 plant viruses, and they are certainly are not going to give you cold or flu viruses. risk groups range from 1 to 4. to handle risk group 2 viruses, for example, you are expected to do so in a bsl-2 or higher laboratory, and anyone maintaining stocks of virus is going to do a hefty check of you and your  facilities  before shipping you anything.  furthermore, even if you did obtain the virus, you would need to store it or maintain stocks of the virus in tissue culture. its not like you can just get an eppendorf tube of virus in saline and expect it to survive in your refrigerator at home, and its not like companies are shipping virus willy-nilly to anyone.  that being said, and at the expense of sounding self-righteous, there is really no reason for you to obtain virus particles. you should start by getting a book on virology and reading it. there is plenty of learning material both visual and written out there, and all i will say is if you do not already know how to culture virus or where to obtain it, you shouldnt be doing so, and no one is going to give it to you.  cdc biosafety in microbiological and biomedical laboratories: http://www.cdc.gov/biosafety/publications/bmbl5/bmbl.pdf  who laboratory biosafety manual: http://www.who.int/csr/resources/publications/biosafety/en/biosafety7.pdf  nih guidelines recombinant nucleic acids: http://osp.od.nih.gov/sites/defaul/files/nih guidelines.html  i think its great that you are interested, and it sounds like you are interested in histopathological changes caused by virus, so i have included some nice histo pictures below   syncytia  herpes simplex virus type 1    clearer example of syncytia    characteristic owl-eye  cytomegalovirus      distemper virus inclusion body     coronavirus particles with  crown  of surface glycoproteins   budding hiv virus particles from the plasma membrane   bacteriophage t4 escape by lysis   papillomavirus   rous-sarcoma virus    tobacco mosaic virus 	
to preface this, i am not a supporter of trump, but i disagree with the way some major media outlets have criticized him over his nickname for covid-19, the  chinese virus . in addition, it is not only those outlets, but other governmental organizations like the who that have advised against dubbing covid-19 in such a manner.  in the past we have had cases where a widespread global epidemic has also been referred to other countries or nationalities, such as:   the  spanish flu , although it should be known that the spanish flu had origins little to do with spain itself. the  russian flu  or  asiatic flu  the japanese smallpox epidemic the asian flu and the hong kong flu the middle east respiratory syndrome  mers , which has been referred to as saudi arabia is sars-like virus.   in any case, is the media backlash over trump is nickname for covid-19 justifiably warranted  is there a problem in the way covid-19 has been nicknamed   answer let is appreciate the learning curve. the problem with all of those historical names is that they created sharp spikes in prejudice, social ostracism, and violence against the indicated groups, and still create issues today as seen here with covid-19. it is true that the first identified cases of covid-19 occurred in wuhan china, but this does not imply that people of chinese descent -- or even people recently emigrated from china -- are vectors for the disease, or in any way responsible for the problems that the disease causes. but in the minds of an unfortunate number of ignorant people, the mere association of the disease with chinese heritage can produce verbal and physical assaults, and/or other social pressures that can prevent chinese people in any walk of life from getting access to necessities or essential services.   trump is very public insistence on calling this the  chinese virus , backed by his status as president, is guaranteed to significantly increase acts of discrimination and assault on people of asian descent  whether or not they are specifically chinese . it guarantees this merely by giving an authoritative affirmation to the most panicked, emotional, and ignorant portion of our society that those  chinese  are in some way responsible for the spread of covid-19.  no doubt trump does this intentionally. trump thrives on the panicked, angry ignorance of others  that emotional state he knows how to manipulate to his own profit. and while he himself may not be concerned with the secondary impact of increased violence against people of asian descent, people of asian descent have a good deal to worry about.  a president ought to have the presence of mind not to inflame racial tensions in a situation where tensions are already running exceedingly high. even if we wanted to argue that there is nothing terribly wrong with the phrasing in and of itself -- that it is just a poor choice of words by a man whom no one considers to be eloquent, perhaps -- misstatements by someone who is  ostensibly  the leader of the free world have significant consequences. if even one asian american gets attacked because of someone emboldened by trump is poor word choice, that is blood on trump is hands. 	
japan is currently the nation with the highest debt as a percentage of gdp - at the time of writing it stands at over 250 . greece, currently the second most indebted nation, went through a decade-long debt crisis after the 2008 financial crash. it entered this crisis with debt levels of  only  103  of gdp, and over the entire debt crisis, this only increased to 181  of gdp.  how is japan able to withstand this level of debt without entering a debt crisis similar to greece  is this the right metric to look at, or are there other factors specific to either country   answer their economies are radically different otherwise.   greece has a weak economy in most fields, with the exception of tourism. japan is a manufacturing and scientific powerhouse. greece runs recurring high deficits and had rarely, if ever, shown inclination to stop doing so. while japan was criticized at the start of their financial decline for insisting on balanced budgets instead of stimulating demand. tax collection. japan does it. greece did not. japan could devaluate its currency if necessary to adjust its finances. greece could not, being on the euro. japanese government debt is, i believe, mostly owed to japanese investors and denominated in yen, unlike greece is. japan has demonstrated for decades that it can pay its bills, on its own. greece on the other hand just seemed as if the only thing that kept it up was euro membership. greek official statistics were not, and had not for a while, been trusted. they are still prosecuting the guy who showed they were cooking the books.   until 2008, greece was only getting charged a 0.25  point premium over german bonds based on the tacit assumption that europe  euro-zone  would never let greece go broke. investors, out of greed and risk un-awareness  or trust in european taxpayers gullibility , parked their money in greek bonds, rather than german ones, just to get that extra 0.25  point.  from http://www.bankofgreece.gr/publications/annrep1999.pdf  i find it hard to set hard time limits on google to only look at stuff from before a date :    specifically, the yield differential between the greek and the german 10-year  bond fell from roughly 270 basis points at end-1998 to about 200 basis points in march  1999  see chart vi.1 .   at the start of the general crisis, investors started wondering if trusting that europe would always back greek debt, even when undergoing a europe-wide crisis, was a wise idea. once perception soured, the game was up very quickly. financing costs for greek government debt went up, fast. any refinancing happened at progressively higher rates. a debt that looked bad at the previous, lower, rate seemed like it would result in a short term default. people still loaned to greece, but the premium to do so was massive and made this very quickly unsustainable.  the plug was pulled, late high-rate private and non-european investors got a haircut. europe is taxpayers paid up enough money for greece to keep paying slightly lowered interests, at deferred times, to the big german and french banks so they would not take too massive a loss  and so that loss of confidence would not spread, as per  machavity answer .  most greek debt remained in place, unlike what happens in say an argentinian default. in fact, money  helpfully  loaned to keep greece from defaulting on interest payments just got added to the overall debt. in a way, though it fully deserved the initial mess it got, that is the tragedy of greece. instead of the reset that comes with a default, greeks got this unending misery of servicing a debt which is only pretended to be fully recoverable from  as most of my post is critical, i want to stress that, imho, the greek people do not deserve to live through this for decades .  but no one is too willing to put their hands in that wolf is jaws anymore.  as o.m. says, mostly perception. until covid-19 at least, japan looks like it has a few good years left for investors, most of whom are japanese and have little interest in rocking the boat. this is not to say it is financially healthy, only that it is under less external pressure.  greece relies on foreign money, did not look good in 2008 and does not now. in most other conditions, big chunks of that 181  would have been written off as unrecoverable already. 	
why waste a test kit on a person without symptoms  answer some people with coronavirus have mild or no symptoms. and in some cases, symptoms do not appear until up to 14 days after infection.   during that incubation period, it is possible to get coronavirus from someone with no symptoms. it is also possible you may have coronavirus without feeling sick and are accidentally infecting others.   so anyone who has had close contact with someone known to have coronavirus should ask a health care provider about getting tested, the us centers for disease control and prevention said.	
sars-cov-2 infection managed to bring a significant part of the economy to a halt and it is expected for lots of companies to have cash flows problems  e.g. impossible to pay the suppliers . i have recently saw a romanian economist speaking about this issue and i was wondering how us and eu are dealing with this.  the european central bank decided to buy eur750 billion worth of bonds while the us is considering printing more dollars  my emphasis .    the extraordinary actions of the federal reserve on monday morning can be boiled down to two sentences: there is a rapidly developing shortage of dollars across the economy. and the fed will do anything it needs to, on any scale imaginable, to end this shortage.    its announcement was phrased in the dry bureaucratese typical of statements from a central bank. but it contains a powerful idea. the fed, the one entity in the world with the power to create dollars out of thin air, has every intention of doing so at whatever magnitude is necessary to try to reduce the severity and limit the duration of the coronavirus economic crisis.   i am wondering why the fed can print dollars while ecb cannot print euros. especially considering the  desperate times  of the new sars.  question: can the european central bank  print money  to partially mitigate the economical effects of the coronavirus infection spreading   answer the fed is the central bank of the united states, which is one nation despite the plural form in their name.   the ecb is the central bank of some  but not all  eu nations, and their operation is based on an international treaty. what the ecb can and cannot do is spelled out in that treaty, and the member states could always modify the treaty if they consider that appropriate.   the ecb can effectively print money by buying eurozone government debt.  when the ecb was set up, the public in certain nations  notably germany  was worried that the ecb would do that and tried to put safeguards into place.  	
where can i get tested for covid-19  answer the process and locations for testing vary from place to place. contact your state, local, tribal, or territorial department for more information, or reach out to a medical provider. state and local public health departments have received tests from cdc while medical providers are getting tests developed by commercial manufacturers. while supplies of these tests are increasing, it may still be difficult to find someplace to get tested. see testing for covid-19 for more information.	
can chlorine solutions also be used  answer chlorine solutions are strongly discouraged as they carry a higher risk of hand irritation and ill health effects from making and diluting chlorine solutions, including eye irritation and respiratory problems. in addition, there is a risk of loss of antimicrobial effect if exposed to sunlight or heat. preparing chlorine solutions requires training to reach the correct dose of 0.05  with varying strengths of bleach available in the private sector. even if stored at a cool dry place with a lid away from sunlight, they have to be renewed daily. in comparison simple soapy water solution do not have any of the above-mentioned health risks and complications including loss of antiviral effect due to heat or sunlight. the antiviral effect of soapy water is due to the oily surface membrane of the covid-virus that is dissolved by soap, killing the virus.	
is it safe to buy fruit and veg, including salad food that is not in any packaging and if it is not, what should i do to make it safe  answer the british retail consortium says retailers and their suppliers are continuing to work to the highest standards of hygiene when handling products, and are observing safety processes set by the food standards agency and public health england.  however, it makes sense to wash unpackaged items such as fruit and vegetables thoroughly under running water, before leaving them to dry. you should also then wash your hands with soap and water.	
what equipment would you need to do to detect sars-cov-2 in a sample.  answer viruses are below the resolution of light microscopy.    scanning electron microscope image with colours assigned by software  http://www.sciencealert.com/this-is-what-the-covid-19-virus-looks-like-under-electron-microscopes 	
should i wear a face mask  answer not unless you are the one who is sick.  the cdc does not currently recommend any healthy person wear a mask and doctors warn fiddling with putting on and taking off a mask could backfire by exposing your hands to your face.   surgical masks fit rather loosely around the face and are not constructed, nor thick enough, to prevent infection,  schaffner said.  while they could have a modest benefit, any protection they provide is likely more psychological than scientific. n-95 masks, which hospitals use, are expensive and are not easy to wear, meaning they are not a practical option for everyday use. as health officials have noted, masks should be reserved for the health care workers, not the general public.  in recent weeks, n-95 masks have grown so scarce that the white house is asking americans who have them, as well as construction companies, to donate them to hospitals, so that health care workers are not forced to treat covid-19 patients without a mask, which puts them at risk for contracting the virus themselves.   the other thing a mask can do is give you a false sense of security, and that is not helpful,  said dr. michael merson, a visiting professor at nyu is school of global public health and a professor at duke university. masks work better at preventing people who are coughing and sneezing from spreading respiratory droplets and infecting others, but  those people who are sick should probably be at home anyway.   	
will i be able to leave my city/state  answer will i be able to leave my city/state  several states have sealed their borders and only essential services and emergency cases are being allowed to cross. travel only if you must.	
i am finding it hard to grasp the current status of the  2 trillion stimulus bill because news about the approval process frequently seem to contradict each other.  as far as i am aware, bernie sanders has threatened to stop the bill after senate had already approved it. how would this be possible  what is the bill is current status and which further steps are necessary to begin the payouts   answer that story is from 2 days ago before it passed and is no longer a relevant point.   the issue was that 4 republican senators stalled the bill to try to weaken unemployment benefits. sanders made a counter-threat to stall the bill if they did not withdraw their objections, to prevent the senate from giving in to their objections.    sanders objected to an amendment proposed on wednesday afternoon by senators ben sasse  r., neb. , lindsey graham  r., s.c. , and tim scott  r., s.c.  that would cap unemployment benefits at a worker is previous salary level.    sanders, aoc threaten delays on  2 trillion economic stimulus - national review     unless republican senators drop their objections to the coronavirus legislation, i am prepared to put a hold on this bill until stronger conditions are imposed on the  500 billion corporate welfare fund,  sanders declared, shortly after sens. lindsey graham  sc , tim scott  sc , and ben sasse  ne  threatened to delay the senate bill.    sanders threatens to demand stronger conditions on  500 billion  corporate welfare fund  if gop moves to reduce benefits for laid off workers - common dreams    in the end, a compromise was reached where the republicans were allowed to propose an amendment to weaken unemployment benefits, it was voted down, and then the bill was passed unanimously.    they were given a vote on an amendment to pare back the unemployment benefits but the measure failed on the senate floor wednesday shortly before the bill is final passage.    senate passes  2 trillion coronavirus relief package - npr   at this point, the bill has passed the senate and, assuming the house approves it as is  which they are expected to , the senate has completed its role in its passage. 	
what is the difference between physical distancing and self-isolation  answer as cases of coronavirus surge, health authorities are advising australians to practise physical distancing  also called social distancing  as much as possible to limit transmission. physical distancing is what everyone can do - like staying home - regardless of whether or not they have been exposed to coronavirus. self-isolating or self-quarantining is a more strict and onerous kind of physical distancing - it means cutting yourself off from the outside world.all passengers who arrive in australia are going into mandatory quarantine in hotels for a fortnight. western australia, south australia, queensland, northern territory and tasmania have also essentially closed their borders - any arrivals are required to self-isolate for 14 days.	
i am a english phd student  focusing on literature , but this year one of my assistantships through my university has involved some grant writing for local non-profits. recently i have been working on a small grant for a local non-profit, which will help this non-profit pay for some consultants to help it develop a strategic plan and more effective organization.  the grant is offered by a foundation that focuses on capacity-building support for non-profits in the city where i live.  because of the impacts of covid-19 on the non-profit sector  i.e., many of our organization is donation funds are likely to dry up , our hired consultants have generously offered to do their work pro bono.   here is my question: what is the etiquette of letting a grant funder know their funds are no longer needed for a specific project  to clarify, i was pretty far into the grant writing process  original loi / project proposal approved, directed to the next steps in the application process  when we learned we would no longer need the funds for the consultation fees.  the foundation that has offered the funds is a major donor to local non-profits, so there is a good chance that we will be applying to them again in the future--just for a different project.  since i corresponded a lot with a representative of the foundation, i feel like i should follow up to let them know, especially as we may be applying to them again in the future ... what are others  thoughts on this issue    if there is a better stackexchange community for posting this question, i apologize    answer i would ask the representative. procedures differ wildly from funding agency to funding agency.   however, i would not be worried: everybody acted in good faith, and you are asking for less money. so in all likelihood the response will just be a short email thanking you for letting them know, and telling you that they look forward to receiving new applications from you in the future. 	
in this link  http://www.dw.com/en/covid-19-recovered-patients-have-partially-reduced-lung-function/a-52859671  we can see    now researchers in hong kong have said that recovered coronavirus patients can be left with damaged lungs.    a small study of 12 patients discharged from hospital showed that two or three had reduced lung function. however, it is too early to confirm any long-term effects.     in some patients, lung function could decline by about 20 to 30  after recovery,  says dr. owen tsang tak-yin, medical director of the infectious diseases centre at princess margaret hospital in hong kong.    computer tomography have shown fluid- or debris-filled sacs in the lungs, which may get progressively worse as the illness develops.   what can determine the long term effects   why can this:   in some patients, lung function could decline by about 20 to 30  after recovery,  happen   are elderly more likely to this  or it could happen to anyone   does this only happen if you had severe symptoms   answer the best theoretical model we have is that the sars and sars-cov-2 viruses knock out the ace2 receptor found on numerous tissues including alveolar cells, and myocytes, and intestinal luminal cells.  if those cells have died then they need to be replaced, and if and until when that happens there will be reduced organ function.  ct scans of recovered patients show some have ground glass changes pointing to extensive damage and scarring which may be irreversible.  http://www.businessinsider.com.au/coronavirus-recovery-damage-lung-function-gasping-air-hong-kong-doctors-2020-3 r us amp ir t  http://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2020/03/biography-new-coronavirus/608338/ 	
i am currently teaching a basic r programming course with about 80 students. under normal circumstances, a core course assessment component is a programming exam, which is done in the computer lab using the lab computers. i will arrange for the internet to be cut off, and we will have exam invigilators who are patrolling the exam venue to detect or dissuade students from cheating. at the end of the exam, the internet is restored, and students submit an r script  basically programming code  using the course learning management system.  this semester, due to the novel coronavirus disease  covid-19 , the university where i work has replaced all on-campus teaching activities with online teaching for the entire semester    with regards to teaching, the faculty have been asked to teach our classes online using zoom, which gives students the freedom to take classes wherever they like. with regards to exams, the faculty have been asked to administer their course exams online, with students completing the exams online from home.  what        i am very concerned about students taking exams online from home, because i am worried that some or many of the students may use this as an opportunity to cheat on the exam -- whether it is collaborating with their classmates, or even asking another student to take the exam in their place.  my questions:   is there any way to detect if students are cheating  e.g., sharing answers , when students are doing an online quiz or exam at home  is there a way to dissuade students from cheating    response to comments:   how much help do you have for these 80 students   i do have one phd student who is a grader. she is supposed to spend about 6 hours a week to help with the course.   answer i also teach a data and programming course, though i mainly use python.  is it possible for you to shift grading away from an exam and toward something else  a project, for example  before going back to academia i spent years working as a policy researcher, and exam conditions simply are not a realistic test of real-life coding abilities. for that matter, coding with the internet turned off is also not remotely what real work looks like either.  in my class i like to give a larger project and let them have a few weeks to work on it, but i could also imagine a more simple project that they only have a few days, or even hours, to do. real data work often comes with time constraints, but it does not come with a lack of internet access in exam-like conditions. just scale the scope of the project based on how long you want them to have to work on it.  there is still a huge advantage to knowing the material, rather than having to look it up. you can also grade on the quality of code and correctness of results, and allow for creativity with open-ended questions like  summarize this data with two plots . this way each student is not only tested their knowledge of r, they are tested on their actual ability to use r in a realistic environment.  if you, unfortunately, are required to give an exam, i know there is software available for proctoring online tests. the sort of thing that utilizes their webcams to make sure they do not leave during the test, or consult other devices, or open other web pages. i have not used them though, so i could not make a recommendation. i imagine they all require university subscriptions. 	
how is it different from the flu  answer the flu and the coronavirus can cause similar symptoms -- a whole-body malaise, with a fever, a dry cough and a noticeable shortness of breath -- but    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/health/coronavirus-flu.html  there are differences  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/health/coronavirus-flu.html . because the symptoms are so similar, doctors will sometimes rule out the flu first. spring allergy season tends to trigger many of the same symptoms in many people, adding another diagnostic wrinkle.	
will local grocery stores operate  answer will local grocery stores operate  yes. all stores selling food items, groceries -- fruits, vegetables, milk, bakery items, meat, fish etc -- will continue to remain open.	
can you catch the virus from people who have died  answer the main way the virus is thought to spread is through respiratory dropletsproduced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, and this is not a concernafter death,  according to thecdc  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html anchor 1584390222777 .but people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died ofcovid-19, the cdc says.there is no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral orvisitation service with the body of someone who died of covid-19, the cdcsays. kissing, washing and shrouding should be avoided before, during andafter the body has been prepared, if possible. but holding the hand or huggingafter the body has been prepared for viewing may pose less of a risk, the cdcsays.	
in response to the current pandemic, the government of canada recently said to:    avoid all non-essential travel outside of canada   other governments have made similar statements restricting travel.  so, if one is to avoid non-essential travel: what essential travel is allowed   below are some examples that came to mind but what are exactly determines if travel is in fact essential   things that come to mind:   journalists going to where they want to investigate for a report. going to help isolated family members business meetings and factory visits, whether to establish policy or oversee measures that related to the covid-19 or other task related to production.   is any proper documentation needed to show that travel is essential  or do we expect gate and border agents to evaluate on the spot based on your word   answer some examples that i have seen in the media:   a healthcare worker who lives in windsor, canada and works in detroit, usa. there are thousands of such people and they cross the border every day. they are doing so to deliver an essential service  healthcare  so their travel is essential a truck driver pulling a load of food, medical supplies or other essential goods. while in theory the delivery company could have the truck handed off to a different driver at the border, more realistically the truck and driver will be allowed in as essential travel a patient returning to their home city to keep an appointment for needed surgery. most elective surgeries, dentist appointments and such are being cancelled, but a person could have been away just before their scheduled surgery farm workers from central america are going to be allowed in to canada because our farms can not function without them   what is not essential    tourism business or work that does not serve an essential purpose  making a movie, looking for new restaurant locations to buy or rent in another city, negotiating a big purchase business-to-business of something non-essential like bathing suits or makeup  people who feel they would be less likely to catch this if they went to their second home in the country people who prefer the weather in ontario to the weather in alberta at this time of year   if i was going to do some essential travel i would bring whatever proof i could, and i would prepare for a significant wait while my explanation was evaluated. i am tempted to say, if you have to ask, it is not essential. i personally have cancelled a followup cat scan and mri scan required by a clinical study i am in. everything is been stable for a while, so i am not going to the big city. it does not feel essential to me.   march 28th, the cbsa tweeted this image:    keep in mind that in many canadian provinces, non-essential workplaces are closed, so where this image says  work  it means  essential work .  also, this applies only to people without symptoms. people with symptoms, whether citizens returning home, truck drivers pulling essential supplies, anyone will be refused or  more likely  taken into quarantine until they test negative. also march 28th people with symptoms will be refused boarding on domestic flights and trains, regardless of the reason for travel. 	
many countries have instructed their elderly population to stay at home because of covid-19. young people like myself are starting to volunteer to help deliver food and other supplies.  but given asymptomatic transmission and virus spread from contact with contaminated surfaces, how i can make sure i do not accidentally do more harm than good   is it enough to use hand sanitizer before i go to the store, then again use hand sanitizer when i unload the grocery bags from my car, and make sure i keep several meters of space between me and the person i deliver to  should i wear a mask  gloves   i am guessing most older people will want to pay in cash. is it possible to decontaminate change  coins, bills , or is it safer to only accept exact payment   answer the official position of the who is that main mechanism of disease transmission is by droplet infection onto mucosal surfaces, or, transfer of those droplets by hand to those surfaces. there is also data to suggest aerosols are generated in close proximity to infected people by coughing or mechanical means such as toilet flushing but we do not know how viable the virus is when spread in that way.  hand sanitizer and washing is primarily before eating to stop that virus transfer.  if you are visiting someone whom you do not know, then you need some ppe as a mask and goggles in case they cough directly in close proximity to you. if you can not buy this, then there are diy recipes to make masks and plastic shields.  you can spray the outside packaging with a bleach solution to sterilize it if there is a possibility that it was contaminated at source, or the recipient can do that.  i would suggest you use a non-contact form of payment, such as wechat, or whatever else is available. avoid handling of cash/coins. 	
are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating the covid-19  answer no. antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. covid-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of covid-19. they should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection.	
how far away is a cure or vaccine  answer about 35 companies and academic institutions are racing to create such a vaccine, at least four of which already have candidates they have been testing in animals. the first of these has begun testing in seattle. however, even if the trials prove the experimental vaccine is safe and effective, it will still be many months before it can be mass-produced and distributed.	
i am currently in my undergraduate junior year studying mechanical engineering at the university of waterloo in canada. i am hoping to apply for top 10 us grad schools in mechanical engineering in about 18 months. in response to the worldwide covid-19 health crisis, our institution has  as have most academic institutions  switched to online teaching and made many changes to the structure of our courses to accommodate the situation.  as part of these changes, the university has offered students the option to selectively change the grade reporting on their transcripts to cr/ncr  credit/no credit  at the end of this semester. normally, my grades would be pretty good  hovering around  3.9 gpa  and i would not bother to report my grades as a cr instead of as a percentage, but this crisis has completely disoriented me and made it difficult to focus on my studies.  furthermore, the university has allowed instructors to retroactively adjust the course breakdown/weighting away from the original syllabus--this means that tests/projects that were originally worth 15  of the grade might have been increased to upwards of 40  weighting. this has had a negative impact on my course grades as well, as i was hoping to make up for poor showings on some of these lower-weight deliverables with strong final exam performances. instead, these final exams are going to be worth much less now.  in the aftermath of these changes, i am contemplating using the cr/ncr option on some of my course grades, particular with any grade that ends up lower than my current gpa. however, i am worried about how this will be interpreted in my grad school admissions in a couple years. in normal circumstances, i think changing a percentage grade into a cr/pass grade would be a red flag that a student is performance in the class was less-than-stellar.  given the covid-19 crisis and its effects on academia as a whole, are admissions committees two years down the road likely to be understanding if i decide to take advantage of the cr option now  should i make use of it and explain that this was  the coronavirus semester  in my application package, or am i dooming myself by converting my grades from percentage into crs   answer the situation is chaotic and it is difficult to make a prediction or give firm advice. either path could be better than the other, depending on the judgments of others.   however, one prediction that i can make with confidence is that universities sending out grades will also be sending out explanations that extraordinary measures were taken in extraordinary times. furthermore those receiving grades and such will understand that the situation was chaotic and that the ordinary procedures need to be modified.   if it were me, i would probably opt for the grades rather than pass/fail. if necessary, i would just explain that the general chaos affected my performance somewhat and the grades may not accurately reflect my potential. i would suspect that letter writers would back that up. but that is partly because i would have a history of excellent performance generally and not one that would be questioned in the absence of the current situation.  this is the hypothetical me speaking, not the real me.   but the pass fail option can also be explained fairly easily that the risks were higher due to general disruption and you considered it the safer option as the rules were changing, making earlier assumptions invalid.   i expect that there will be more emphasis put on interviews and on letters of recommendation for a while until things settle down again. but that is just a guess.  	
what is who is position on use of corticosteroids for the treatment of covid-19  answer the current interim guidance from who on clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when covid-19 infection is suspected advises against the use of corticosteroids unless indicated for another reason. 8 this guidance is based on several systematic reviews that cite lack of effectiveness and possible harm from routine treatment with corticosteroids for viral pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome. 9 	
should pregnant women be tested for covid-19  answer testing protocols and eligibility vary depending on where you live. however, who recommendations are that pregnant women with symptoms of covid-19 should be prioritized for testing. if they have covid-19, they may need specialized care.	
will i able to withdraw money  answer will i able to withdraw money  yes. cashier and teller operations of banks, including atms, falls under the essential category list.	
i do not mind being alone, but i would like to do it somewhere else. is it possible to road trip responsibly  answer people around the united states are being told to stay home, but you might still need to make a road trip, whether to care for a loved one or for work. if so, follow a general rule:  do not go far, stay in your car,  said robert sinclair jr., a northeast regional spokesman for aaa. mr. sinclair offered other advice. when pumping gas, sanitize your hands after replacing the pump and before you touch the car door handle, steering wheel and any other part of the vehicle. if an attendant pumped the gas for you, sanitize your credit card after it is handed back to you. minimize bathroom breaks as much as possible. while this advice goes against aaa is general advice to take a break every 100 miles, mr. sinclair said drivers could rest in vehicles at scenic overlooks or in parking lots of rest stops. otherwise, wash your hands after using a public restroom and before touching your car. and remember: with guidelines on travel changing rapidly state by state, the rules at your starting point may be different than the rules at your destination.	
multiple groups of scientists are trying to develop a coronavirus vaccine but they are not yet being fruitful. what challenges or difficulties are there in the process that slowing down and/or causing failure in development of vaccine   answer there are multiple challenges presented, and many of those are not limited to coronavirus vaccine.  as mentioned above, it just takes time. before a vaccine can be used in patients, clinical trials must be performed to validate the safety and efficiency of the vaccine candidate. a clinical trial includes three phases, which again, just takes time.  but to really answer your question, what are some challenges of developing a vaccine   to begin with, from the perspective of lab research, we first need to develop a vaccine candidate. what protein on the virus should we take as an antigen  there are many many proteins on the virus, and for cov, we know it is a protein called spike protein. it is the neutralizing target on the virus. which means, when an antibody bound to this site, it could prevent the virus from infecting the cells. okay, then we have to know, do we need to do something to this protein to make a vaccine  for example, when we try to manufacture this protein into a vaccine, what if the protein is degraded  or it somehow becomes a  bad  protein that simply cannot stimulate immune responses in human  these are just some examples of roadblocks of developing vaccine.  let is suppose we finally work those out. then what is next  each candidate vaccine needs to be tested in animals before going into human clinical trial. this step is time-consuming.  now we are finally ready to start clinical trials. according to fda, the vaccine for human trials  also for each drug  needs to be produced under good manufacturing practices  gmp . it is basically a standard operating procedure to make sure that the vaccine candidate can be manufactured in a large-scale, quality-controlled manner. there are many many challenges, like how to purify the protein  how to scale-up production. this is partly of the reason why the first vaccine in trial in usa is an mrna, and in china is a dna, both of which does not require complicated protein purification.  as you can see, the list of challenges can go on and on. but there are scientists and doctors working diligently on it. hopefully we will get there. 	
lately i am reading about the good coronavirus-tests in south korea, the faulty tests in the usa and the tests in indonesia which are according to some singapore newspapers not even working.  i wonder why these tests are so different and can not find proper information on what which country is testing for.   answer first of all the disclaimer: i am analytical chemist but not clinical chemist. that is, i professionally do things that are related/to some extent similar to test kit development, but not for medical use, and i have only been very remotely involved with microbiology-related testing. otoh, i expect that pretty much everyone who works in this field is likely to work a lot these days and not to have any time to hang out on sx.  so this is all afaik, and i am happy be corrected - and op please take this with the appropriate caution against stuff written in the internet by random strangers.   the tests are developed in much haste, and undergo some emergency validation rather than the full validation procedure that is usually required. this naturally leads to some uncertainty about their performance, but we accept that in order to have tests available at all right now. see e.g. what the fda says about covid tests  list with fda emergency use approved covid tests.  different tests search for different parts of the virus rna.  this is getting very far from my field, but is this the information you are looking for as what exctly is tested  by the cdc-developed test    viruses mutate, so a test that works well at some place at one time may not work as well somewhere else or a few weeks or months later.  for a test to work,    sampling  possibly transport extraction from the sample  difficulty varies e.g. between mouth swabs and sputum  the test kit    must all work well. e.g. if the sampling is not done properly because there is no properly trained staff available, nothing can be done further down the analytic process. i do not know why the indonesian tests do not work, but it may be as  simple  as samples undergoing long transportation to a lab with the appropriate equipment so they spoil on the way. the faulty tests in the us seem to have had a wrong reagent - and burocratic approval was needed for the labs to replace that by their own good reagents.  usually, if a lab wants to use other than the prescribed/delivered reagent, they need to a lengthy validation of the procedure - the point here is to be allowed to avoid that as it would take too long   	
a previous thread on bioinformatics stackexchange citing an article by the economist which references a cartoon of predictive outcomes by the cdc  economist article on coronavirus  suggests a model in epidemiology using the  basic reproductive rate , commonly known as r0. although i am no bioinformatician, i imagine that one could tweak a model based on similar infections like sars and hdn1. yet, i found no models predicting or giving confidence intervals for the spread of coronavirus. i wonder if the the data is still too sparse, e.g. we do not know if it is seasonal  mentioned in the above thread  and we cannot infer the virulence.  would such a model be reliable  if not, how many months of data would we need to reliably use a model predicting the spread   answer the original r0 calculation was developed in the early 1900s to model malaria transmission and is known as the ross-macdonald model so your idea is over 100 years old. the model was very famous for identifying the optimal strategy for malarial control by targeting the adult mosquito rather than the mosquito larvae. what it said was reducing the mosquito population and reducing malaria transmission were two different issues. so the bednet strategy is based in this idea and particularly spraying the inside of houses with insecticide.  r0 was famously used in the 1980s to predict the hiv pandemic when who thought it would remain localised in africa.   the problem with r0 and coronaviruses is we do not know the asymptomatic population who could also transmit the virus.   this population is potentially very large. epidemiologists will attempt extrapolation from cruise ship quarrentine, eg the diamond princess where everyone is tested to understand this transmission parameter and project this onto the rest of the planet. clearly this could have limitations or inaccuracies. the other issue i am baffled by is seasonal transmission and whether this will occur with covid-19.   one thing r0 of covid-19 will identify is the latent period transmission which occurs before the symptoms, i.e. the incubation period. essentially, people with cough/mild symptoms before they self isolate and become really ill with a lung infection will transmit the virus. in this context r0 will be/was very influential for understanding when to move between quarrentine and containment phases of the pandemic. 	
there is a public figure/writer on the internet which plays a sort of  informal journalist , who stated in a tweet  without a source , that  italy is hit hard, experts say, because they have the oldest population in europe.   now this can be interpreted in two ways. that death rates are higher because of this  it makes sense , or that the disease is spread faster because of this. could this last idea be true   is an old population a contributing factor for the spread of the disease, or does the disease infect younger and older populations in the same way   answer there are some theories that the covid-19 outbreak started in hospitals  vox, march 13, 2020 :    another theory is that intense spread of the virus in the hospital  system, before doctors realized there was a problem, may have  amplified the outbreak. some 10 percent of medical workers in lombardy  have been infected, according to a march 3 washington post report, and  health workers account for 5 percent of those infected in the country.   in hospitals, in general, there are more older people.  there were also several cases of quick spread of infection in nursing homes.  hospitals and nursing homes are environments where people live close together, so this is why infection can spread quickly among older people.  younger people get infected in schools, when they travel to areas with lot of infected people and when they engage in contact sports, for example.  one of the reasons for a lot of cases in italy is that they did not act quickly when the inefction started. 	
what about simply testing people to see if they have the virus  answer well, we know it is been a very bumpy start - right  - lots of stories of delays, backlogs, despite promises to expand quickly. now, over the weekend, the fda issued emergency use authorization for a new diagnostic tool. this can provide results within hours rather than days. the company says it is going to make this available - roll this out by march 30th, so end of next week. so this could speed up testing.	
breaking news    us president donald trump has announced sweeping new travel restrictions on europe in a bid to combat the spread of the coronavirus.    in a televised address, he said travel from 26 european countries would be suspended for the next 30 days.    but he said the  strong but necessary  restrictions would not apply to the uk, where 460 cases of the virus have now been confirmed.     ...     mr trump said the european union had  failed to take the same precautions  as the us in fighting the virus.    a presidential proclamation, published shortly after mr trump is address, specified that the ban applies to anyone who has been in the eu is schengen border-free area within 14 days prior to their arrival in the us.   n.b. additional reasons given in the us proclamation:    the administration is european travel proclamation notes that  the schengen area has exported 201 covid-19 cases to 53 countries. moreover, the free flow of people between the schengen area countries makes the task of managing the spread of the virus difficult.    what has the  official  reaction from the eu been regarding this us action   answer there have been a number of reactions from the eu so far - some official, others not so much. i have decided, in the world of twitter diplomacy, to count tweets from ministers and current/former heads of government as official responses for this purpose. responses are in chronological order, culminating with the joint statement by president von der leyen and president michel.  the first response from a current or former head of government came from former finnish prime  amp  foreign minister, alexander stubb who tweeted at 5:18 utc:    any attempt to contain the  coronaoutbreak is welcome, but the  decision of  realdonaldtrump to exclude the uk from a european  travel ban is nothing short of irresponsible. viruses do not recognise  borders. decisions should be based on facts, not politics.   the european council president, charles michel, then tweeted his initial response at 6:12 utc, saying that    following the travel ban  realdonaldtrump announced, we will assess  the situation today.     economic disruption must be avoided.      europe is taking all necessary measures to contain the spread of the  covid19 virus, limit the number of affected people and support research.   former prime minister of romania  amp  current leader of the renew party in the european parliament, dacian ciolos, tweeted that    viruses know no borders or nationalities. nationalism  amp  blame games  are no antidote. this is a global crisis, which requires global  solidarity,  realdonaldtrump . containment measures are needed, but  not arbitrary ones. europe will be your partner, but not your  scapegoat.  covid19   speaking to bbc breakfast, british chancellor rishi sunak said that the uk had no plan to emulate the us travel ban.  i am aware the uk is no longer an eu member, but i feel this response is still relevant.     we have not believed that that is the right thing to do, the evidence  here does not support that.    what we are trying to do is contain the virus while recognising that  it is now likely that it will spread more significantly.   guy verhofstadt, former prime minister of belgium, tweeted at 9:51 utc that:    nationalism is not the answer to  covid19, because viruses do not care  about borders or nationalities. we are all in this together. we need a  european approach to save lives  amp  bold interventions to protect our  economy.   at 10:40 utc, an official joint statement was released by president ursula von der leyen and president charles michel:    the coronavirus is a global crisis, not limited to any continent and  it requires cooperation rather than unilateral action.    the european union disapproves of the fact that the u.s. decision to  improve a travel ban was taken unilaterally and without consultation.    the european union is taking strong action to limit the spread of the  virus.  	
is there a vaccine, drug or treatment for covid-19  answer not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care. possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. who is coordinating efforts to develop vaccines and medicines to prevent and treat covid-19. the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing.  see basic protective measures against the new coronavirus .	
i am canadian. since i applied for the visa shortly before the situation got serious, i now have a valid work and travel visa for germany, but i am afraid they will turn me away at the border/airport.. any thoughts on that matter     answer you will almost certainly be refused boarding by the airline or be turned away at the border by immigration.  germany has enacted an entry ban on all non-citizens, with the only exceptions being for certain travellers transiting to get to their home country or travellers seeking entry into germany for urgent reasons.  unless you have an urgent reason to enter germany, your work visa will not secure your entry at this point in time. 	
a friend of mine is currently in cuba and was due to return to the uk on 2 april travelling holguin  montreal with air canada, and onwards to london gatwick with ba  single pnr, booking made direct via the air canada website .  yesterday she received an email cancelling her flight but without giving any alternative. long-distance communication from cuba can be difficult, so far she has been unable to contact the airline to find out if they will re-book her on an earlier flight.  i have tried to help her from the uk, but the amanage my booking  option just directs me to a toll free number that does not connect. i tried calling their customer services number in canada but, unsurprisingly i suppose, could not get through.  fwiw, she is a uk citizen married to a cuban citizen/resident but will need to try to extend her 60 day visitor visa  usually the maximum allowed  if she is trapped in cuba. she is a 15 hour bus journey away from havana and if possible needs to depart from holguin. only a few airlines fly into holguin, the only realistic alternative would be condor via frankfurt, then lufthansa to uk.  to date i do not recall seeing many questions about air canada and flight cancellations. i am aware that they are offering a flexible change policy right now.   my question is:    has anyone else been in this situation with air canada since the covid-19 emergency erupted  given that her cancelled flight was more than 48 hours away, can we expect air canada to email her again in the next couple of days with information about an alternative flight  any advice  apart from the obvious around continuing efforts to contact the airline     answer answering my own question:   no further contact from air canada following the cancellation email it was impossible to contact them via any means with assistance from friends back in the uk  eg looking up flight availability, checking on the status of travel restrictions relevant to potential routing options , my friend managed to get home to the uk by travelling overnight monday to havana to board an iberia flight havana madrid london, arriving home after c48 hours travelling.   her spouse does not have residency in the uk so remains behind in cuba.  so, the answer to what to do in the unprecedented situation we are all facing is be proactive, do not wait for events to overtake you. make your own arrangements to get home. 	
can infected people who recover get it again  answer can infected people who recover get it again  it is not known. a few reports from china say some people had covid-19, recovered and then fell ill again. it is unclear if that is a relapse, a new infection, or a case where the person never fully recovered in the first place. scientists at the at the fred hutchinson cancer research center in seattle say the 30,000-letter genetic code of the virus changes by one letter every 15 days. it is not known how many of these changes would be needed for the virus to seem different enough to the immune system of someone who had a previous version of it for it to cause a fresh infection. fauci told congress on thursday that it was unlikely that someone could get reinfected.  we have not formally proved it, but it is strongly likely that that is the case,  he said.  because if this acts like any other virus, once you recover, you will not get reinfected. 	
i will be submitting my ph.d. thesis in the comming two months. from last one month i was sending email to professors for post-doc position but from last week i have stopped sending emails requesting for post-doc position due covid -19. although the impact of this virus in my country is less. i am in a confusion whether or not to send an email regarding post-doc position at this time   answer yes, by all means keep looking for a position. the future is unknown. things may settle down or not, but it would be a mistake to wait until they do before you even begin a search. but email responses may be slower than usual and people may need to be more tentative. expect that.   i suspect things will be hard for a while, but no one expects it to be permanent.   you can not win the game if you do not play.  	
is there anything i should not do  answer these measures are not effective against covid-2019 and can be harmful: smoking, wearing multiple masks, taking antibiotics. in any case, if you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing seek medical care early to reduce the risk of developing a more severe infection and be sure to share your recent travel history with your health care provider.	
can mosquitoes or ticks spread the virus that causes covid-19  answer at this time, cdc has no data to suggest that this new coronavirus or other similar coronaviruses are spread by mosquitoes or ticks. the main way that covid-19 spreads is from person to person. see how coronavirus spreads for more information.	
can the heat from a hand dryer kill coronavirus  answer hand dryers can not kill the virus, according to who. the organization also says that uv lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of the body because the radiation can irritate skin.  drinking hot water or taking hot baths will not kill it, either.	
according to wikipedia :-     ...although the cause is unknown, the underlying mechanism involves an autoimmune disorder in which the body is immune system mistakenly attacks the peripheral nerves and damages their myelin insulation. sometimes this immune dysfunction is triggered by an infection or, less commonly by surgery and rarely by vaccination. the diagnosis is usually made based on the signs and symptoms, through the exclusion of alternative causes...    can the sars-cov-2, which causes both upper and lower respiratory tract infections, cause gb syndrome   there is evidence that the zika virus, h1n1 and few other viruses can cause gb syndrome. is there any possibility or evidence that the said coronavirus can trigger this autoimmune disease    answer   like everything else, we are instructed by past experiences. although there were not a lot of data on neurologic aspects of mers and sars, there were some papers describing neurologic complications in those patients. in rare cases, complications including adem  acute disseminated encephalomyelitis -like demyelination, encephalitis, and brainstem encephalitis were reported. they also saw some peripheral and non-central nervous system stuff, including things that looked like guillain-barre syndrome or what they would sometimes call critical illness polyneuropathy   http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/927562  so, yes, severely affected covid-19 patients may develop something that looks like gbs. 	
i am in montreal now and unable to leave because if i go home they will sent me in quarantine in various places where i do not want to go.  question: do bedbugs transmit covid-19 from person to person   answer bed bugs eat blood. red cells do not contain dna which can be hijacked by the sars-cov-2 virus so the bugs should not have any viable virus unless the bug is covered with infected droplets of someone is cough. that seems highly improbable.    bed bugs are not known to spread disease. bed bugs can be an annoyance because their presence may cause itching and loss of sleep. sometimes the itching can lead to excessive scratching that can sometimes increase the chance of a secondary skin infection.   and     a common concern with bed bugs is whether or not they transmit diseases. although bed bugs can harbor various pathogens, transmission to humans has not been proven and is considered unlikely.   however, blood also contains some macrophages which have been shown to possess ace2 receptors which could lead to the macrophages getting infected though surface expression is low. one would have to posit that the virus enters the bug is gut but somehow leaves again, and somehow reaches the bugs  beak while being unable to replicate.   to further put this into perspective a cc of blood has usually less than 15,000 white cells. the volume of blood suckled by a bed bug is a way lot less, and macrophages are further sparse in white cells at 5 .  http://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.01.26.919985v1.full  http://entomology.ca.uky.edu/ef636  http://www.cdc.gov/parasites/bedbugs/faqs.html 	
how do you catch coronavirus  answer coronavirus is thought to be spread by small drops of moisture we release when we sneeze or cough.  the moisture has to get into your body to make you sick, which means you can catch coronavirus if those droplets get into your eyes, nose or mouth.	
i recently watched a movie contagion  2011  starring some very high rated actors like kate winslet, gwyneth paltrow, matt damon, lawrence fishburne, jude law etc.  it seems to have precisely predicted how coronavirus originated and spread. some similarities with current situation being,   origin in china. rumors of being engineered. similar symptoms of high fever, dry cough, respiratory issues. airborne and community spread.   consequences of those being,   curfew and lockdown of major cities around the world. canceling of international flights. people working online. panic buying and subsequent riots.   precautionary measures taken are,   social distancing. hand washing frequently. quarantine and no handshaking.   the sequence is close to current reality. hence my question is how did they get it so accurate   was it inspired from previous outbreaks    answer no, it is not about coronavirus. neither is  the eyes of darkness  by dean r koontz. coronavirus is actually a fairly well-known virus that has been around for quite some time. the cdc defines it as:    coronaviruses  cov  are a large family of viruses that cause illness  ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle  east respiratory syndrome  mers-cov  and severe acute respiratory  syndrome  sars-cov . a novel coronavirus  ncov  is a new strain that  has not been previously identified in humans.     coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between  animals and people. detailed investigations found that sars-cov was  transmitted from civet cats to humans and mers-cov from dromedary  camels to humans. several known coronaviruses are circulating in  animals that have not yet infected humans.   it is not uncommon to have a virus be very widespread and infect humans via an animal host. aids is also a virus which is believed to have spawned from animal to human contact. 	
should i stock up on groceries  answer no one knows how long many of us will have to work from or stay home, so having food and supplies on hand is essential. melissa clark, a cookbook author and food writer for the times,  recently wrote about   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/06/dining/how-to-stock-a- pantry.html stocking your pantry. but experts say people should not hoard food or supplies. despite the empty appearance of store shelves, food suppliers and retailers  say the supply chain remains strong  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/business/coronavirus- food-shortages.html . in the meantime, plan two weeks of meals. substitute ingredients if you are missing something. be creative. and do not forget to be generous with your neighbors.	
i was watching president trump is white house daily briefing for coronavirus and i see officials standing too close to each other which is a different issue. but one thing i am wondering is everyone staring at the president nonstop without looking at the audience  is there a specific etiquette they are following     answer from a political psychology standpoint...  the people in the photo are the members of the president is cabinet  or their staff . that means they are all either direct reports and/or political subordinates of the president. they all serve at the pleasure of the president. therefore, there is a certain element of political psychology at play.  specifically, they all must uphold the appearance being a loyal member of the president is team above all. therefore, they must show all the outward signs of respect and being a good listener. visually, this includes focusing their attention on him while he is speaking and maintaining respectful body language. otherwise, they undermine the president is leadership and their respective security and effectiveness in their cabinet or staff position.  	
in the last couple of days, who officials have criticised the uk government is approach to the covid-19 pandemic, describing the government is reliance on developing herd-immunity amongst the british population, and apparent reluctance to put in place quarantines as  ridiculous .  china has also been criticised for its initial response to the virus, which the financial times describes as a  cover-up , and which us national security advisor robert o brien says  cost the world community two months  in terms of preparation for the disease. this would appear to be in breach of the international health regulations  2005 , article 6 of which states that:    each state party shall notify who, by the most efficient means of  communication available, by way of the national ihr focal point, and  within 24 hours of assessment of public health information, of all  events which may constitute a public health emergency of international  concern within its territory   given the criticisms above, does the world health organization have any powers to either enforce health recommendations such as quarantines or lockdowns, powers to punish or sanction countries that refuse to comply with said health recommendations, or powers to punish countries that breach their obligations under the ihr   i have been able to find this article which describes a panel which investigated this in the wake of the ebola crisis, but i can not find more information about the results of this investigation.  answer   who officials have criticised the uk government is approach to the covid-19 pandemic   actually the quoted criticism does not come from the who, nor from a current employee of the who. it comes from     professor anthony costello, ex-director of maternal and child health at the world health organisation   the criticism is of the claim that the uk government should     just let 60  of the population get it    these appear to be the words of a radio presenter not a published policy of the uk government.  the uk is health secretary recently said herd immunity is not the policy of the uk government.     herd immunity is not our policy. it is not our goal. our goal is to protect life and our policy is to fight the virus and protect the vulnerable and protect the nhs. and that is what we are doing. now there is a, of course there is a scientific debate around scientific concepts, but i want to be absolutely crystal clear that we will do what is necessary to protect life,    so the premise is questionable.    the subject of herd immunity and the 60  figure came from an interview with the chief scientific adviser to the uk government. he was apparently speaking about the conditions for a potential resurgence of covid-19 next winter and beyond.       does the world health organization have the power to impose sanctions    not really, not of the sort the question seems to suggest.  the who did impose sanctions on a news-media organisation that leaked information in advance of a publication date. who banned the organisation from its press conferences for two weeks.  any un member state can apply for membership of the who. it seems likely the who can, as a sanction, expel a member from the who. i suspect only the un itself could expel a state from the un.  in the past, the who has been associated with criticisms of punitive sanctions on countries as hampering the objectives of the who. the who seems to generally aim to assist rather than punish countries.  like any individual or organization, the who can advocate for or against a sanction. as a un specialized agency it is likely to be listened to by the un assemblies. as i understand it, it does not have the power itself to commit the un to sanctions.  it is normally un member states who would apply and enforce punitive sanctions following a resolution of the un security council of which the uk is a permanent member with veto rights. 	
pls eli5. 2013 was last time i opened macroeconomics textbook  i just have a b.a. economics.  on r/economics, u/comfortablecold9 asked    from your point of view, at what point would we  the usa in 2020  be approaching weimar  a qe program of 15 trillion  25 trillion    right under, u/bumblewurth answered    from my point of view, never. what made hyperinflation in the weimar republic and  most other regimes with hyperinflation  was printing marks to pay debts in gold. the whole point of qe is to provide liquidity  already there  and to prevent deflation/meet inflation targets  not there yet.  if we are at qe with 25 trillion it is because we still have not seen inflation in consumer prices.    inequality will be through the roof though as asset prices inflate.   u/bumblewurth answers u/comfortablecold9 is follow-ups quoted in line.       u/comfortablecold9 :  so seeing as we pay our debts in dollar, that suggests to me that we are effectively reliant on the dollar maintaining its strength       u/bumblewurth :  no we are not. if the dollar falls, the debts fall with the dollar. that is the difference between hyperinflationary economies in the past with non-sovereign debt and modern economies with sovereign debt. you are not printing more dollars to chase the same amount of gold.      but as soon as we start to see a level of inflation that would warrant a massive qt program, the economy would be held hostage.      economy is held hostage with deflation risk already. there is risk everywhere. that is life. but qe will not cause hyperinflation, just a whole lot of asset inflation and inequality.    most of this could be avoided if we were not so tepid about using fiscal policy or if the fed had a fiscal tool to just send checks to everyone to manage deflation. monetary policy is pushing on a string. but congress will not act, so here we are  just like in 2008.    like u/comfortablecold9 below, i too  do not see a difference    i do not understand bumblewurth is distinction between  future obligations  and  current debts .  current debts are wiped out when you monetize them  -- so what          u/comfortablecold9 :  i do not see a difference here  if the dollar started to lose lose strength, you would have to print more dollars to get the same value of what you are buying.      yes, that is a concern for future obligations, not current debts. current debts are wiped out when you monetize them. but once you get inflation you stop qe because the entire point of qe is to create inflation so that demand is at productive capacity. you are not printing money to cover obligations and then printing ever more to cover the same obligations as your currency falls. you are printing more to prevent deflation. that is the point. qe and weimar are not related.   answer if you want something  even more eli5 , try this from the atlantic:    let me unpack these one by one. right now getting the markets to buy our debt is not the problem. getting enough debt for the markets to buy is the problem. investors are so crazy to load up on treasuries that they are actually paying us to borrow, taking inflation into account. but while we are currently getting free money from investors, hungary circa 1945 was getting no money. it was an investment pariah. if hungary wanted to rebuild its economy, its only recourse was the printing press.     second, the united states is not really printing money. at least not like post-war hungary. quantitative easing is usually described as  money-printing  but it is not really. qe involves the fed buying longer-term bonds from banks. it simply swaps one asset for another -- in this case, cash for longer-term bonds. unlike hungary, the fed is not directly paying the treasury is bills. this is a hugely important distinction.    whatever money the fed  prints  is stuck in the banks. that money is not inflationary as long as the banks do not lend it out. what if the banks do start lending at a faster clip  the fed can still effectively pay the banks not lend by, for example, raising the interest on excess reserves or require the banks to set aside more money. it would be shocking for the fed not to pursue one of these options.    third, the most important difference between us and post-war hungary or weimar is that our roads have not been razed to the ground and half the country is not striking. it is very difficult to have hyperinflation when you still have a functioning economy. almost all examples of hyperinflation result from huge economic shocks that devastate an economy so much that leaders think printing money is the only solution to growth. as bad as the great recession has been, our gdp is already back to and above its all-time pre-recession high. as bad as unemployment is, more than 80 percent of the labor force is working. in zimbabwe, 80 percent of the population was unemployed.    let is conclude with a modest proposal for an economic corollary to godwin is law. the first person to reference weimar is hyperinflation in an economic debate automatically loses.   yeah, it was written in 2012... nowadays there are some fears  time will tell if justified  that people returning from the lockdowns  when those end  will cause  unexpected  inflation. but that is a different story, not really about qe.  and if you want more recent data on where us inflation is headed,  this just in :    u.s. consumer prices fell by the most in more than five years in march and further decreases are likely as the novel coronavirus outbreak suppresses demand for some goods and services, offsetting price increases related to shortages resulting from disruptions to the supply chain.    the labor department said on friday its consumer price index dropped 0.4  last month amid a tumble in the costs of gasoline, hotel accommodation, apparel and airline tickets. that was the biggest drop since january 2015 and followed a 0.1  gain in february.     the general price level decline is expected even as the federal reserve has adopted extraordinary measures to stop the economy is free-fall.  ...      the disinflationary impulse, along with the great disruption in economic and financial market activity, is a key reason why the fed is unleashing vast new monetary policy stimulus,  said gregory daco, chief u.s. economist at oxford economics in new york.  ...     excluding the volatile food and energy components, the cpi dipped 0.1  in march, the first drop since january 2010.  	
i need to cancel or possibly change an international flight on united with a non-refundable ticket  class t . when i log in to the app and hit cancel, the credit shown is the exact amount i paid for the ticket -  953. within the credit box, it says  change fees may apply,  but does not show any sort of deduction. i have read online they can charge up to  400 in change fees.  i am scared to hit the confirmation button. will i get back a full credit of  953  thanks   answer united airlines uses a  new money  concept for change fees.  basically this means that you can cancel your flight at this time and receive a  953 credit voucher. however in order to use that voucher at a later stage you will need to pay  400  new money   ie, the  400 can not come out of the voucher value , and then you will be able to use the full  953 value of the credit.  depending on when the trip is, you may want to wait until it is a little closer to the date to see if they add rome to their waiver list for areas affected by the coronavirus. if they do that you will likely be able to  at least  avoid paying the change fee. the refund amount/change fee will not change over time, so as long as you cancel at least a day or two before the flight there is no reason not to wait. 	
how risky is coronavirus for teens with asthma  - teresa answer because coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, anyone with existing breathing problems is at higher risk. those with severe asthma have been placed in the  extremely vulnerable  group, meaning they are advised to stay at home for at least 12 weeks and should have been contacted by the government. those with mild asthma should still practise social distancing and only go out for essentials. if you start displaying coronavirus symptoms that do not improve after seven days, or you have difficulty breathing, make sure you call 111 or 999 and explain that you have asthma. when people with asthma get respiratory infections, it can set off their asthma symptoms. asthma uk recommends you keep taking your preventer inhaler daily as prescribed, to help cut the risk of an asthma attack being triggered by coronavirus. you should also carry your reliever inhaler with you every day, in case you feel your asthma symptoms flaring up.	
as a response for the covid-19 pandemic, my university built an electronic platform, and is now ordering professors to share their courses on it.   the school platform is open to the public, so i would rather not share my documents on it. i have been using google classroom to share content with my students.   can i rightfully refuse to use the school is platform   answer   can i rightfully refuse to use the school is platform    tl dr: legally, probably not, but you are still more or less in the right according to the norms of academia.  longer answer:  this is not so much about rights in the legal sense. the underlying context is that there is a longstanding tradition in academia that faculty own the rights to written  and other  media they create as part of their work. this is the case in the us where these rights are pretty universally respected as far as i am aware, and in many other countries, and is true despite the fact that legally, in the us at least, employers in general can  and, outside of academia, generally do  assert ownership of all intellectual property generated by employees in a work context.  in other words, academic institutions have quite intentionally and explicitly given up some of the legal ownership rights they are in principle entitled to. as far as i understand, the guiding philosophy here is that faculty exercise a lot more freedom and control over what kind of materials they produce compared to employees in other sectors. that means the work is regarded as being of a more personal, creative nature, and it was decided long ago that that should mean that faculty would be the owners of the work.  note: i am talking specifically about copyright  for other forms of ip like patent rights, a quite different philosophy and different policies typically apply.   coming back to your question: i think you are quite right to be concerned. your university is at the very least showing itself as somewhat deaf to these very old and well-established ideas. but can you  rightfully refuse   legally, that is less clear. but it would be quite reasonable to express a concern. at my university the administration has provided reassurance to faculty that their copyright over teaching materials would be respected during the covid-19 crisis, and we were given quite specific explanations on how our rights would be balanced against the need to deliver our teaching remotely, including providing recordings, what steps we can take to prevent students from sharing our materials, and more. perhaps by raising the issue you and your colleagues can push your own administration to also think this through a bit more.  let me finish by encouraging you to also adopt a more flexible and tolerant mindset. all of us are called upon these days to get out of our comfort zone and appear in online videos and recordings, use online platforms with awful records on privacy, and generally engage in activities that in normal times we might consider distasteful and privacy-violating. we do this with the understanding that exceptional times call for exceptional measures, and that the highest priority right now is to keep the lights on at our institutions. as i said, i think your concern is reasonable and probably you can reach some sensible understanding with your administration about your class materials. but while you discuss the issue with them, try to keep some perspective and not make yourself too much of a pain in the butt. as important and valid as this is, people do have worse things to worry about these days. 	
if someone happens to catch covid-19 when we are on the other side of the curves -- when deaths and new infections are slowing -- would their symptoms somehow be less severe    a milder fever  a weaker cough    sorry for the naivety in the question.  answer there are about 8 common strains of the sars-cov-2 virus in circulation. it appears to be mutating slowly based on phylogenetic analyses and each mutation appears to be the same in terms of clinical disease and lethality.  so, there is no expectation that if you catch the disease late in its spread that the clinical disease is going to be any different from any other time that it is caught.    now, more diversity is emerging. like all viruses, sars-cov-2 evolves over time through random mutations, only some of which are caught and corrected by the virus is error correction machinery. over the length of its 30,000-base-pair genome, sars-cov-2 accumulates an average of about one to two mutations per month, rambaut says.  it is about two to four times slower than the flu,  he says. using these little changes, researchers can draw up phylogenetic trees, much like family trees. they can also make connections between different cases of covid-19 and gauge whether there might be undetected spread of the virus.   http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/mutations-can-reveal-how-coronavirus-moves-they-re-easy-overinterpret 	
what is being given to treat the coronavirus once you have become infected  answer there is no vaccine for the new virus and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-19, so treatment consists of supportive care to help relieve symptoms and, for severe cases, care to support vital organ functions, the cdc says.  about 80  of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment, according to the who. for most patients, that means drinking plenty of fluids and resting, just as you would for the cold or flu.	
does cdc recommend the use of facemask or face coverings to prevent covid-19  answer in light of new data about how covid-19 spreads, along with evidence of widespread covid-19 illness in communities across the country, cdc recommends that people wear a cloth face covering to cover their nose and mouth in the community setting. this is an additional public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of covid-19 in addition to  not instead of  social distancing, frequent hand cleaning and other everyday preventive actions. a cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer, but may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others. this would be especially important in the event that someone is infected but does not have symptoms. a cloth face covering should be worn whenever people must go into public settings  grocery stores, for example . medical masks and n-95 respirators are reserved for healthcare workers and other first responders, as recommended by current cdc guidance.	
i am a junior at a large state university. lately, as you all have probably heard, the coronavirus is spreading like a wildfire and we all should be scared.  my instructor is from china, and my school is also filled with asian students. how do i ask for excused absences so that i can stay at home for the lectures so that i will not get the virus from my instructor or my asian classmates  do i contact the chair of the department that is offering the course or the dean of the school  would it be better if i ask to switch to an online class instead  it is already after the add/drop period   some suggestion would be helpful.  answer you should do none of these things and we should not all be scared. this would be panic reaction.  you have not said in which country you are studying, but the health authorities of most governments have issued official advice to their citizens which you should follow. most institutions, such as universities, will also have issued official advice which you should also read and follow.  if you are in the uk the department of health has provided advice to uk universities.  if you wanted personal action, using hand cleansing gel dispensers provided by the university will reduce incidents of cross contamination and ensure regular hand-washing is your best defence. 	
how do i safely take care of someone who is sick  answer with the shortage of coronavirus testing nationwide, it may be difficult to know whether your loved one has coronavirus or another illness.  so it is critical to play it safe and not infect yourself and, in turn, others. the cdc suggests:     giving the sick person their own room to stay in, if possible. keep the door closed.  having only one person serve as the caretaker.  asking the sick person to wear a face mask, if they are able to. if the mask causes breathing difficulties, then the caretaker should wear a mask instead.	
are there any privacy protections which would prevent a landlord from including the name of a specific tenant in a warning regarding covid-19   for context: recently my partner and i  we live in massachusetts  started exhibiting symptoms of covid-19. after speaking with a doctor, we informed our landlord that we may be ill. he responded by saying that he has to inform other residents of our building that we are ill. while we agree that it is important for other residents to be aware and take extra precautions, we are concerned about our landlord including our names  particularly given that my partner is asian-american .  answer he can tell the world  you chose to tell him. he has no duty of confidence with you  he is not your health professional  so he can tell whoever he likes however he likes. 	
should i make my own hand sanitizer if i can not find it in the stores  answer    cdc recommends handwashing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or, using alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol when soap and water are not available. these actions are part of everyday preventive actions individuals can take to slow the spread of respiratory diseases like covid-19.  when washing hands, you can use plain soap or antibacterial soap. plain soap is as effective as antibacterial soap at removing germs. if soap and water are not readily available, you can use an fda-approved alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol. you can tell if the sanitizer contains at least 60  alcohol by looking at the product label.  cdc does not encourage the production and use of homemade hand sanitizer products because of concerns over the correct use of the ingredientsexternal iconexternal icon and the need to work under sterile conditions to make the product. local industries that are looking into producing hand sanitizer to fill in for commercial shortages can refer to the world health organization guidancepdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon. organizations should revert to the use of commercially produced, fda-approved product once such supplies again become available.  to be effective against killing some types of germs, hand sanitizers need to have a strength of at least 60  alcohol and be used when hands are not visibly dirty or greasy. do not rely on  do it yourself  or  diy  recipes based solely on essential oils or formulated without correct compounding practices. do not use hand sanitizer to disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects. see cdc is information for cleaning and sanitizing your home.  see faqs about hand hygiene for healthcare personnel responding to covid-2019.   	
what temperature kills the virus that causes covid-19  answer generally coronaviruses survive for shorter periods at higher temperatures and higher humidity than in cooler or dryer environments. however, we do not have direct data for this virus, nor do we have direct data for a temperature-based cutoff for inactivation at this point. the necessary temperature would also be based on the materials of the surface, the environment, etc. regardless of temperature please follow cdc is guidance for cleaning and disinfection.	
can testing show if someone has had coronavirus and then recovered  answer yes, but it depends on what kind of test you do.  if you do an antibody test, in theory it could show that you had the virus and then recovered,  hotez said.  to do an antibody test, you would need to have blood drawn. but coronavirus tests in the u.s. are not being done this way.	
should i go to work  answer if you can, you should stay home from work when you are sick, whether or not you have coronavirus.   many companies are increasingly flexible with work from home policies. if your company is allowing employees to work from home, consider it. some companies have enforced working from home.   if you must go into work, maintain 6 feet of distance from your colleagues, wash your hands frequently and practice good respiratory etiquette by coughing or sneezing into your elbow.  avoid handshakes, switch in-person meetings to teleconferences and disinfect your workspace with epa-approved products at the start of your shift.	
what is a coronavirus  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19.	
i started grad school last september, and so far have been primarily busy with courses, but have been trying to do a little research on the side whenever i can. i recently finished all my courses though, and now i am expected to dive into research.  my advisor has not assigned me a project and expects me to come up with one on my own. i do not mind this really, i like the freedom to work on whatever i want. however, this was only really feasible when i was in my lab and surrounded by senior phd students with whom i could bounce ideas off and get a lot of guidance from.   however, now i am stuck at home because of the covid19 lockdown and do not really know how to productively spend my time doing research. my advisor is busy taking care of his family at home because of the lockdown, so he is not very responsive right now understandably. i am all alone at home so i do not have the guidance of senior phd students either. i have tried messaging senior phd students but it is not fair for me to constantly be harassing them for help...  apart from heavily guided stuff in undergrad, i have next to no real research experience... since i assume i will be stuck at home for the next several months, how can i be productive research wise with basically no guidance or help from anyone  i do not want to just waste the next few months...  fyi, i am doing research in engineering but everything is done using simulations, so while i have all the tools and equipment i need to do research at home, i just do not have the experience or guidance to efficiently do so.  i have been trying to just read papers in the meantime, but i can only read so many before i get sick of it. i do not want to just be reading papers for 40 hours a week for the next 3 months...  answer you can try to fill the gaps in your knowledge and skills. for example, learn some techniques that are commonly used in your field. even if you will not need them for your immediate project, there is a chance that they will be useful for the next one. for example, if you do engineering, you are likely to need to write some code, so you can improve your software engineering skills. your colleagues may give you some more ideas on what is useful to learn.  if you feel sick of reading papers alone, you might try to reach to other junior students and form a virtual study group where you discuss and critically analyze recently published papers. you may actually come up with some ideas for research project based on the discussions. good luck  	
should blood centers routinely screen blood products for covid-19 virus  answer no, although rna fragments of sars-cov-2 were detected in blood of symptomatic covid-19 patients, this does not mean that the virus is viable/infectious. in general, respiratory viruses are not known to be transmitted by blood transfusion. blood centers should have routine blood donor screening measures in place to prevent individuals with respiratory symptoms or fever from donating blood. as precautionary measures, blood centers might encourage self-deferral of those with travel history to an covid-19 affected country in the previous 14 days, or of those who have been diagnosed with covid-19 or are close contact with a confirmed covid-19 case.	
can i visit my grandparents  answer you should not. but if skype, facetime or another app is an option, you can make a virtual visit. and there is always the old-fashioned telephone call, too. the virus is especially bad for older people like your grandma and grandpa, which means it is even more important for them to  stay away from  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/parenting/grandparents-visit-safety- coronavirus.html  other people. it can be hard, but this keeps them healthier.	
my wife and i are moving out of our current rental in a couple of weeks. our landlord stated in a text this morning that he can show our house to potential new renters with 24 hours notice, even though we asked him to wait until we have moved out -- my wife has asthma, and we are in the upswing of a global pandemic.   we live in arizona. are there any state or federal laws, or executive orders, that allow us to keep our landlord out until we have left   answer ars 33-1343 allows the landlord to show the place, with two days notice. none of the executive orders suspend this aspect of the law: the eviction order is directed at law enforcement, and orders a temporary delay in enforcement of eviction orders. the governor does not have clear constitutional or statutory authority to suspend all or part of ars 33-1343. the initial declaration of emergency lists the various statutory authorities, such as ars 36-787. in order to suspend the landlord access law, the legislative would have to enact a new law, which the governor would have to sign into law. there is no applicable federal order, and any such order would be of dubious constitutionality  landlord-tenant laws are a state matter, not a federal matter . 	
can i still get mail  answer the u.s. postal service, ups and fedex are still delivering the mail, but to continue doing so requires a healthy work force, and at least 20 postal workers have tested positive for the virus. workers for ups and fedex  share similar fears  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/coronavirus-post-office- workers.html  about contracting the virus, especially at warehouses where the mail is handled. increasingly, letter carriers and delivery people are leaving packages on doorsteps and limiting close interaction with residents. a recent study found that the virus disintegrates over about 24 hours on cardboard, suggesting that packages may have only low levels of the virus -- unless the delivery person has coughed or sneezed on it or has handled it with contaminated hands. if you are concerned about the risk, wipe down packages with disinfectant wipes and wash your hands.	
what are some of the details of the stimulus package  answer the legislation would send direct payments of  1,200 to millions of americans, including those earning up to  75,000, and an additional  500 per child. it expands jobless aid, providing an additional 13 weeks and a four-month enhancement of benefits, and extends the payments for the first time to freelancers and gig workers. the measure would also offer  377 billion in federally guaranteed loans to small businesses and establish a  500 billion government lending program for distressed companies reeling from the impact of the crisis, including allowing the administration the ability to take equity stakes in airlines that received aid to help compensate taxpayers. it would also send  100 billion to hospitals on the front lines of the pandemic.	
both countries have declared a lockdown. so what went wrong in the usa    why has covid-19 affected less people in india that in the usa   answer india is not testing much. you can go here and play around with testing relative to the population of some countries. while the us has already a relatively low testing rate given with 25 daily tests per million people, the number of india is even smaller. if you do not test, you can not count infected people   	
i was invited to give a talk at an important conference, which has now been canceled due to coronavirus. can i still list the fact that i was invited on my cv, with a parenthetical note  it is not the same as if i turned down an invitation or failed to show up. obviously this is not really that big of a deal and i can accept it if that is not a suitable thing to do, but i am trying to find a silver lining.  answer yes. i had a similar experience where my agency restricted travel and did not allow me to present. in my case, i listed that the presentation was delivered by someone else who could attend.  matching the style of your cv, i would write something like:    academic, f. my cool title. awesome conference. city, state. march 2020. invited oral presentation. unable to deliver, meeting canceled due to covid-19 outbreak.   based upon personal experience, i will now be adding a similar entry to my own cv. also, based upon some of the comments, here is why i would list an invited talk even if the talk was not delivered: the invitation is an honor in itself because it shows people recognize you, at some level, as an expert on a topic. thus, the invitation has value besides simply delivering the actual talk.  	
wuhan flu is a very hot topic right now, and i have seen at least two papers and several bloggers attempt to model the   mathcal r  0  of the disease using the reported data on wikipedia.  the problem i have is that most of these approaches use a guassian likelihood to get point estimates, and while that may be a good approximation, the uncertainty estimates would be more than wrong. consider for a moment that if there are  x  reported cases of the flu then there can be more cases we have not seen, but not fewer. the likelihood for any model should respect this property  that our observations can under estimate the true prevalence of the disease at a given time, but can not over estimate it .  what would be an appropriate likelihood for this process  i imagine it would almost look like a flipped pareto distirbution. interested in hearing your thoughts.  answer too early to fit models with  r 0   with only data about the number of infected people .  the larger problem is that the development is still in the exponential phase and we can not model the decrease of the exponential growth rate. see also this question: fitting sir model with 2019-ncov data doesn  39 t conververge in that framework  sir model  the only variable that can be accurately determined is   beta -  gamma  but  r 0    beta/ gamma  is still difficult to determine  but it seems to be   beta- gamma  approx 0.4  gt  0  thus we at least know that  r 0 gt 1  .  see also the comment at the end of that answer about the use of only a time series in the number of infected people. that number does not provide a good measure of  r 0 , but it is auxiliary information that is being used. for instance direct estimates of   gamma  the parameter relating to how long people remain infectious  by observing how the virus has spread, rather than just using the quantitative numbers .    regarding your problem/question  binomial distribution  one might model the reported cases as a binomial distributed variable. the observed/reported cases will be some fraction  p  of the underlying real cases  in more advanced models this fraction could be variable depending on time and the number of cases . but the current data do not allow to study this  potentially one can fill in the gaps based on studies on a wider set of epidemical data .   given such situation  a binomial distributed fraction  one would expect that the variance is related to the mean by a factor between 0 and 1  binomial distribution has   mu   np  and  var   npq  . however when we plot an exponential curve to the data then we currently get rss being a factor 4 larger than the sum of means. thus there is posibly overdispersion instead of underdispersion  although it is not yet a good accurate measure  .   with so little data we can not be sure. in addition the model is not so great  as you say the approaches use simple gaussian likelihood . one might use some correlation in the errors. i imagine that this is a potential source of overdispersion.       data infected  lt - c 45, 62, 121, 198, 291, 440, 571, 830, 1287, 1975, 2744, 4515  day  lt - 0: length infected -1      exponential model mod  lt - nls infected   a exp b day ,   start   list a   infected 1 ,  b   log infected 2 /infected 1     mod  plot day,infected, log    y   lines day,predict mod   title  exponential fit       residuals versus mean plot predict mod ,abs infected-predict mod  , log  xy ,  xlim   c 10 1,10 5 , ylim   c 1,10 4 ,  xlab    predicted ,  ylab    abs observed-predicted    rr  lt -  10 seq -1,5,0.1       comparing residuals with square root of mean lines rr,sqrt rr ,lty 2    mean lines rr,2 sqrt rr ,lty 2    mean text 10 4.5,10 2.25,  1sd ,srt 30,pos 1  text 10 4.5,2 10 2.25,  2sd ,srt 30,pos 3  title  comparing residuals  obs - pred   n with square root of mean , cex.main 1   sum infected  sum  infected-predict mod   2    poisson distribution for increments  there is new/recent an r package available on github that aims to model this specific epidemic:  http://rdrr.io/github/chrism0dwk/wuhan/  this model models an ode according to a seir model and uses data that is separated for individual regions  combining this wit hthe population size in those regions and the transport in between those regions .   the predictions from the model are compared with the observations by comparing the increments and assuming that these increments are poisson distributed.     is there enough data   the exponential model in the above graph does not fit accurately the data  although i would say the exponential fit is sufficient, still one might desire some more complex fit to learn more . one could make the fits more complex, possibly the factors that determine the dynamics are not constant in time.   but, one may wonder what could be achieved by making the model more complex. i do not see what could be achieved. the data shows a reasonable exponential curve, and i do not believe that we should try to squeeze more out of the present data.  potentially, one could incorporate more background information, and then some sort of simulations  , and a more bayesian approach, could be interesting in order to project into the future what we could see  but this will lean mostly on prior information and those 12 data points do not provide a lot of information .    those simulations would also help to handle the correlations mentioned in the previous footnote.  some interesting view of the data might be the distribution of the increases in the infections from day to day. this increase is not constant in time. we might better regard it as a variable with a random distribution by itself  and model variation in growth curves based on this random variation in the growth rate . models to use are http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/geometric brownian motion  the likelihood computation by chris jewell is also treating the evolution as a random walk by evaluating the observed istep sizes/ increments      plot day -1 ,infected -1 /infected -12 ,  xlab    day , ylab    infected/infected previous day   title  daily relative increase in infections , cex.main 1   hist 100  infected -1 /infected -12  -100,   xlab    increase infections , cex.main   1,  main    histogram daily relative increase    	
some news reports suggested czech republic stopped issuing visa to chinese citizens/nationals and closed visa centres in china after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.  the latter is of course understandable. but are all chinese nationals, regardless of travel history/place of residence, affected by this    http://news.expats.cz/weekly-czech-news/the-czech-republic-has-stopped-issuing-visas-to-chinese-citizens-over-coronavirus-fears/ http://www.radio.cz/en/section/news/coronavirus-czechs-suspend-visas-for-chinese-citizens-flight-ban-considered   answer from what i can find of official information, the czech republic has suspended the processing of visa applications and issuance of visa at the embassy in beijing and the consulates in china  shanghai, chengdu  and hong kong. it is worth to notice that this restriction affects also non-chinese residents of china, who are now also not able to apply for a visa.  some media have indeed reported that the visa ban applies to all chinese citizens, but there is no official information supporting that and i believe these reports to be mistakes. it seems very well possible for chinese citizens who are resident outside china to get a czech visa from the consulates at their place of residence and there seem to be no ban for residents of china to enter the czech republic if they are already in posession of a visa.  unless the czech republic is the main destination in the schengen area, it should also still be possible for chinese residents to obtain a schengen visa from other consulates and then use that visa for travel to the czech republic. it will probably have little impact on actual travel patterns for a single schengen country to impose restrictions as have been done here. 	
can the virus that causes covid-19 be spread through food, including restaurant take out, refrigerated or frozen packaged food  answer coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread from person to person through respiratory droplets. currently, there is no evidence to support transmission of covid-19 associated with food. before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds for general food safety. throughout the day use a tissue to cover your coughing or sneezing, and wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom. it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object, like a packaging container, that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. in general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging. learn what is known about the spread of covid-19.	
two years ago i had an irrigation system installed in my garden  now i would like to expand it with a drip line.  the man who installed the system left a tube specifically for this purpose, and today i unearthed it  the problem is that i do not know the name of the connector i need, and also i was unable to remove the cap that is closing the tube.  i do not want to apply excessive force to avoid breaking the tube. i tried unscrewing the black part from the blue one, turning the cap counterclockwise.  is this the right way to do it  is the cap simply stuck since it was buried for two years  do i need special tools or would a couple of wrenches do the trick    note: the tube is not under pressure, there is a valve on the other end.   also, shops are closed due to covid-19  i am in italy   what kind of conector should i search for on amazon     answer it is a compression fitting. the blue ring unscrews, a couple of wrenches on it and the black nut will be fine. for future fittings you need to identify the pipe size and material. 	
during covid19 pandemic i managed to save some money and i was thinking about repaying some of my debts, however, i am not sure should i do it, or keep cash just in case things turn for the worse. this is my situation with concerns against repaying each debt.  i have roughly 7000 gbp  i have three debts:   6500 gbp overdraft  apr 35    2500 gbp paypal credit  apr 19.9    1600 gbp amex credit card  apr 23.5     i could repay my overdraft, it would save me around 150 gbp each month and i could still use it as if money would be in my bank account in case of a real emergency.  i could repay both paypal and amex cards saving around 120 gbp each month and have some money left. my concern is that paypal credit and amex are the least acceptable forms of payment in the uk and in case i would need access to money there is a chance i will not be able to use.  i can just keep the cash and pay interest on all three accounts until crisis is over.  what should i do   answer keeping some liquid cash is sensible, but the exorbitant rates on your debt will hurt you long-term. pay them off as quickly as safely possible.  since you have high-interest debt, getting rid of that debt is more important than maintaining a large emergency fund. having both savings and overdraft fees is illogical. however, i understand that you would rather have cash than paying of other debts if you expect to be laid off soon.  to save the most money, the optimal solution is to pay off the highest-interest debt first. here, that is the overdraft.  unless you will also be able to pay off the other debts within a couple of months, it could be sensible to refinance. a small loan for ps5000 at 6  over 12 months    ps440/month  could give you breathing room to pay off all high-interest debts and stabilize your finances - if you are still eligible for such loans.  aside from affecting job stability, the covid-19 situation does not change a lot. if you have struggled to live without debt pre-corona, it will not get easier now. that is why it could be helpful to pay off as much as possible now, so that you are not saddled with endless interest payments in more difficult times: who knows how long this crisis will last  and you need to figure out why you have so much cash and so much debt, but that is out of scope here. 	
the covid-19 virus causes respiratory illnesses. the virus does so by changing the generic code of our cell.  if a virus can cause a change in our body, like respiratory illness, can the same techniques in a controlled manner be used in a constructive manner, for example treating cancer.  simply if i ask, can we create a virus like a thing to work for good in our body, just like nuclear fusion used for bombs and electricity.  answer i think the claim about viruses always being destructive is not a good starting assumption for a question. for several reasons:   in the sense that op is probably considering, it is not true. counterexample, see below  and there are also other uses we put viruses to . in a wider sense, life is always destructive in that a living organism uses energy, substances, and space that otherwise could be used by another living organism. while we could debate whether viruses are alive or not, they certainly share these points. so a bacteriophage  see below  may be destructive to the bacterium it infects. but that bacterium dying means the  neighbor strain  that is resistant against this phage is thriving. so one organism is destruction eases the life of other organisms. in that sense, i consider the claim of desctructivity with  so, what         can we create a virus like a thing to work for good in our body   have a look at bacteriophages and phage therapy. bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria, and there has been research about using them against bacterial infections about 100 years ago, in parallel to the development of antibiotics.   besides political/language difficulties  bacteriophage research was strong in the soviet union, and in consquence lots of the research publications are in russian  back then antibiotics turned out to be easier and cheaper in practice  this may change with increasing antibiotic resistances, though .  antibiotics are produced by chemical synthesis or isolation from plant/fungi. they are chemical substances, so once we have studies that show that the stuff works as intended, product testing  only  needs to show that the correct modification of the correct substances is there in the correct concentration.   but the viruses are more-or-less alive, and in any case they evolve. so chemical substance testing is not sufficient, for each batch the biological activity must be checked and proved anew. this means a lot of expensive work for each batch of the virus. also, the bacteriophages are pretty much the opposite of a broad-spectrum antibiotic: they are not only species specific but also strain specfic  i do not know whether that is the case always, often, or sufficiently often to hinder practical application .  	
i am going on holiday very soon and i have a mild temperature, i feel quite well and in my honest opinion, i am fit to travel. i will take my medication with me etc. i also look quite well.  i have a worry though. can airport metal detectors/x-rays in the uk or in any airport detect temperature  if so and they want to pull me over for a check i will allow more time for airport security.   also, do you think they might have to test/quarantine me for coronavirus as the symptoms according to the nhs are:      a cough  a high temperature  shortness of breath     i have a medium temperature and a mild cough  2 of 3 symptoms . it would be a pain and really upsetting to ruin my holiday.  answer neither the metal detectors, nor the full body scanners currently in use at uk airports are designed to measure or detect body temperature. however infrared camera systems designed to do so are fairly simple to install, and are known to be installed at various airports worldwide to catch fever sufferers. on a far simpler level the same kind of non-contact technology is also being used in handheld thermometers.  at the moment this is primarily targeted at travellers from the highest-risk areas  i.e. mainland china . since known cases in the uk are still extremely rare, it is likely you would be recognised as having a high probability of having some other virus  they are rather common after all . having said that, the situation is subject to change, so keep following the news, and consider the worries of your fellow passengers  e.g. carry tissues  amp  hand sanitizer  	
is the presence of a fever always the first symptom of a coronavirus infection  is there any value in taking your temperature every day  answer symptoms of covid-19 resemble the flu and include fever, cough and shortness of breath, according to the cdc. some people also develop aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea.    while fever is one of the most common symptoms, it is not productive to take your temperature every day, poland said.     that is like taking your blood pressure four times a day for no particular good reason. i would probably not do that unless there is a reason to do it. for example, if you felt feverish, or if you traveled to a high-risk area, or if you had contact with somebody  infected ,  he said.	
i am designing an experiment which requires i measure final and initial lead concentrations for the determination of aqueous lead uptake by different mediums. because lead concentrations would be measured on the ppm scale, i would need to use a spectrophotometer to measure light absorbance by the water samplings. i could then use beer lambert is law to determine concentration.   with recent protocols surrounding covid-19, it is been difficult to contact an institution. i was wondering if there was any way i could measure light absorbance of my samples at home. is there some other apparatus i could look into using  or perhaps even purchase     all the best   answer another possibility is the grease spot photometer  aka bunsen photometer  german wiki page. this can be homemade, you need a piece of paper, some wax or oil, two light sources, a meter stick and for the measurement of solutions also some e.g. cardboard to shield unwanted light. also the darker the room, the better.  the underlying idea is that light intensity from two different sources can be compared  and found to be equal  with a paper with a grease  waxed  spot: the spot will vanish when as much light is transmitted through the spot as reflected around.   if you move a light source to achieve this condition, you can conclude relative intensities from the distance  intensity goes 1 / d2 with d the distance from the respective light source .   here is a youtube video demonstrating this: http://www.youtube.com/watch v sgzdl4qra48    how to measure photometrically  so schematically we have:  o--u---- ----o   ---d---    with light sources o, cuvette u and the spotted paper  . measure distance  d  between equal intensity paper position and the light source with the cuvette.   we have  i  transmitted   sim  frac 1  d 2    next, a calibration series is acquired as usual: blank  which serves as  i 0   and concentrations over the calibration range. almost as usual:    e   - lg  frac i  i 0   sim  varepsilon l c     - lg  frac d 0 2  d 2    b c       lg d   a   b  c      a  and  b  are determined by calibration - i use here  a  instead of  2  lg d 0  because several choices are possible and in general the fitted value should be used rather than the theoretical one since it includes some effects in which practice differs from theory  e.g. differences between   transmission in the grease spot from   reflection outside .  standard addition instead of calibration would be possible as well. 	
how do i get tested  answer if you are sick and you think you have been exposed to the new coronavirus, the  c.d.c. recommends  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms- testing/testing.html  that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. they will decide if you need to be tested. but keep in mind that,  across the country, sick people say they are not being tested  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/us/coronavirus-testing- challenges.html . the obstacles range from a lack of testing kits to being rejected because you are asymptomatic. in other words: there is a chance you can not get tested, even if you think you need it.	
if we go ahead with an international mass gathering, what can we do to reduce the risk of participants catching covid-19  answer promote hand washing, respiratory hygiene and social distancing at the event. make sure you have emergency contact details for all participants, including where they are staying during the event. you should make it clear to them that this information will be shared with the local public health authorities to enable rapid contact tracing if a participant at the event becomes ill with covid-19. the event organisers need to have an agreed preparedness plan in case one or more participants become ill with covid-19 symptoms. this should include rapid isolation of the ill person and their safe transfer to a local health facility. you should consider whether the number of participants at the event could be reduced, making available participation by video or teleconference and possibly screening participants for covid-19 symptoms  cough, fever, malaise  at points of entry to the venue. you can find advice on how individual participants can protect themselves and their loved ones from covid-19 at: http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public	
was reading a washington post article  why outbreaks like coronavirus spread exponentially, and how to flatten the curve  and it looked like they were using brownian motion.   can not directly link the graphic, but it is the third graphic in the article, showing particles bouncing around, but i have included a screenshot:     if this is the case, how do particles in a fluid medium resemble interactions in a human population   answer i read this article when it came out. i do not think the point is about whether or not people behave like particles in a fluid medium, but about how quickly people can spread the coronavirus when randomly interacting with one another in an open space  in my opinion, this model would be a reasonably good representation for a crowded area like a mall lobby or a beach where people are moving around more or less randomly .  however, even in other settings when people are not moving around randomly, if anything, people are more likely to interact with each other in restricted spaces like sidewalks where there is less choice of where to position yourself spatially. 	
can i still travel  answer depending on where you want to go, not easily. in march, as more and more governments around the world hoped to slow the spread of the coronavirus, they  began to impose travel restrictions  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-travel- restrictions.html  and even close their borders. in the united states, president trump has said he is considering some restrictions on domestic travel.  the military has curtailed domestic travel for service members and their families.  and if you do go anywhere, remember to  practice social distancing  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/smarter-living/coronavirus- social-distancing.html : stay away from groups and keep at least six feet of distance between you and other people.	
are casual hook-ups dangerous  - may answer engaging in casual hook-ups is a bad idea at the moment. it is against government guidelines to leave your home for a non-essential reason, to make unnecessary journeys or to meet up with someone who is not living with you. having close physical contact with someone not in your household could spread coronavirus, as there is no way for you to tell whether you or the other person may be carrying it.	
now that a tiger has tested positive, could my pet get coronavirus from me  or could i become infected by my pet  answer  there have been no reports of pets or livestock becoming ill with covid-19 in the united states, and only four reported cases in the world of dogs and cats testing positive for the virus,  the american veterinary medical association said april 5.   at this point in time, there is no evidence that domestic animals, including pets and livestock, can spread covid-19 to people.   that statement came after the bronx zoo said a tiger was infected by a zoo employee who was  asymptomatically infected with the virus.  the zoo had been closed to the public since march 16.  the avma said  out of an abundance of caution, and until more is known about this virus, you should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with covid-19.    if you have a service animal or you must care for your animals, including pets, wear a cloth facemask  do not share food, kiss, or hug them  and wash your hands before and after any contact with them,  the veterinary association said.   if you are not ill with covid-19, you can interact with your pet as you normally would, including walking, feeding, and playing. you should continue to practice good hygiene during those interactions,  including washing your hands before and after touching your pet.	
why does not the us have enough medical supplies to handle this outbreak  answer top healthcare officials say the us does not have enough stockpiled medical equipment like masks, gowns and gloves to meet the anticipated need as this pandemic grows.  there are several reasons hospitals are on track to face dire shortages, said dr. william schaffner, an infectious disease expert and professor at vanderbilt university medical center.    about 20 or 30 years ago, we decided that we would not over-hospitalize,  schaffner said.  back then, hospitals often had empty hospital beds for new patients. but now, many hospitals are  absolutely full,  schaffner said.  we have under-built hospital beds because they are very expensive.   also, americans have grown accustomed to  just-in-time  ordering. but that becomes a huge problem when international supply chains are disrupted by an outbreak.  we did not anticipate international turbulence influencing this,  schaffner said.  now, some health care workers are making their own masks. they have also been told they can use bandanas or scarves as masks.	
what does a well-controlled health condition mean  answer generally, well-controlled means that your condition is stable, not life-threatening, and laboratory assessments and other findings are as similar as possible to those without the health condition. you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.	
there has been a question here about the job approval rating of trump in this covid-19 pandemic.  slight increase.   i wonder how the governor and mayor of us most affected us state  amp  city, that is nyc  and ny state  are doing in the opinion polls lately.  answer both of them, but particularly cuomo, have received exceptionally high marks.   according to a siena poll posted on march 30th with data collected 3/22 - 3/26, approval of cuomo is pandemic response is 87-11, including 70  approval from republicans  deblasio is is lower, but still quite good at 61-31 approval to disapproval.     the above figures are specifically about how well they have done to address the pandemic, but cuomo is overall approval has also improved by 54 points to a near record high of 71-23.     http://scri.siena.edu/2020/03/30/87-of-nyers-approve-of-cuomos-handling-of-the-coronavirus/    the hill is also reporting on a national poll conducted by harvard caps/harris from march 24th - march 26th which shows cuomo with a national approval rating of 45 , nearly as high as trump with 48 . annoyingly, i can not find that actual data anywhere, so we just have to go off the quotes they provide:    forty-five percent of americans say they have a favorable view of how new york gov. andrew cuomo  d  is responding to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a new harvard caps/harris poll released exclusively to the hill.    harvard caps/harris polling director mark penn told the hill.  no question he is seen now as a leader at least with democrats and not seen as partisan since he is favorable right now by 2 to 1.     cuomo favorability in us hits 45 percent: poll   if we take penn at is word, that would mean that his approval is 45 , disapproval is   22  and no opinion is 33 . while 45  does not sound that high, i would argue that it is surprising for that many people nationwide to have a positive opinion of a local politician from another state. 	
what if somebody in my family gets sick  answer if the family member does not need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to  guidelines issued by the c.d.c. in february.  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/guidance-prevent- spread.html  if there is space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom to minimize contact with healthy family members. any shared spaces should have good airflow, such as an open window or an air conditioner, and you should not allow any visitors except for those who need to be in the house. your family member should wear a face mask when he or she is around others, and if he or she can not because of difficulty breathing, you should wear a mask. make sure not to share any dishes or other household items with your sick family member and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. do not forget to wash your hands frequently.	
while school is out, can my child hang out with their friends  answer   the key to slowing the spread of covid-19 is to practice social distancing. while school is out, children should not have in-person playdates with children from other households. if children are playing outside their own homes, it is essential that they remain 6 feet from anyone who is not in their own household. to help children maintain social connections while social distancing, help your children have supervised phone calls or video chats with their friends. make sure children practice everyday preventive behaviors, such as washing their hands often with soap and water. remember, if children meet outside of school in groups, it can put everyone at risk.  revise spring break plans if they included non-essential travel.   information about covid-19 in children is somewhat limited, but current data suggest children with covid-19 may have only mild symptoms. however, they can still pass this virus onto others who may be at higher risk, including older adults and people who have serious underlying medical conditions.  	
so how do i stay safe while exercising in covid-19  answer do not exercise if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing. stay home and rest, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority.if you are able to go for a walk or bicycle ride always practice physical distancing and wash your hands with water and soap before you leave, when you get to where you are going, and as soon as you get home. if water and soap are not immediately available, use alcohol-based hand rub. if you go to a park or public open space to walk, run or exercise always practice physical distancing and wash your hands with water and soap, before you leave, when you get to where you are going, and as soon as you get home. if water and soap are not immediately available, use alcohol-based hand rub. follow the directions of your local health authority in regards to any restrictions on the number of people with you and/or restrictions on the use of public outdoor play or exercise equipment. if you are not regularly active start slowly and with low intensity activities, like walking and low impact exercises. start with shorter amounts, like 5-10 minutes, and gradually build up to 30 minutes or more continuously over a few weeks. it is better and safer to be active for short periods more frequently than to try and be active for long periods when you are not used to it. choose the right activity so that you reduce the risk of injury and that you enjoy the activity. choose the right intensity according to your health status and fitness level. you should be able to breath comfortably and hold a conversation while you do light- and moderate-intensity physical activity.	
how can programmes assure continued access to hiv services  answer it is important to assure continuous access to essential hiv prevention, testing and treatment services also where measurements of confinement are implemented within the public health response to the covid-19 pandemic. while access to essential services should be maintained, adapted and evidence-based measures to reduce possible transmission should be considered and implemented. these include 12 : applying standard precautions for all patients  including ensuring that all patients cover their nose and mouth with a tissue or elbow when coughing or sneezing, offering a medical mask to patients with suspected covid-19 infection while they are in waiting in the service, perform hand hygiene etc.  health care and outreachworkers, as well as peer educators and clients should apply adapted handhygiene measuresensuring triage, earlyrecognition, and source control  isolating patients with suspectedcovid-19 infection ensure there is adequateventilation in all areas in the healthcare facilityspatial separation of at least1 metre should ideally be maintained between all patients within all typesof servicescleaning and disinfectionprocedures should be followed consistently and correctlydispensing medicines  for treatment of hiv, tb andother chronic conditions such as opioid dependence  for longer periodsallowing reduced frequency of patient visits consider reduction of services to the most criticalones  provision of essential treatment and prevention services  servicessuch as counselling sessions may be reduced or adapted generally, vulnerable populations, including members of key populations, as well as homeless and/or displaced people may be at increased risk of infection - because of additional comorbidities impacting on their immune system, reduced ability to apply measures of confinement and social distancing, as well as generally limited access to health services. it is critical that services that reach these populations such as community-based services, drop-in centres and outreach services can continue providing life-saving prevention  distribution of condoms, needles and syringes , testing and treatment while securing safety of staff and clients. services can be adapted according to above considerations where applicable.	
my ex and i have joint custody of our kids. is it safe for them to go between two homes  answer ideally, you should limit your children is potential exposures to coronavirus and work out the safest plan possible with your ex.   the problem: most state and county family courts are closed, or open only for emergencies involving abuse or endangerment. so if parents wanted to formally modify pre-existing custody agreements, they can not.  but some states may be offering some flexibility during the pandemic. and there may be creative solutions, such as spending more time with one parent now in exchange for extra time with the other parent after the pandemic ends.	
how many cases have been reported in the united states  answer covid-19 case counts for the united states are updated regularly online. see the current u.s. case count of covid-19.	
what about travel insurance  answer typically, insurance companies will cover disrupted or canceled trips  only under very specific circumstances  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-travel-questions- advice.html . but if you purchased cancel-for-any-reason insurance for your trip, there is a good chance you will get a good share of your money back. be sure to read the fine print on your coverage before speaking with a representative.	
given that a vaccine or an effective treatment for covid-19 is the best way out of the current crisis, it seems logical that governments would take a  no holds barred  approach to making it happen as soon as possible. have any countries so far announced that they would abolish  or significantly relax  restrictions on drug/vaccine development for the duration of the pandemic   answer china has also fast-tracked their own vaccine development, with testing in humans  news of march 18 :    cansino bio and its collaborators at the academy of military medical sciences  institute of biotechnology secured a quick chinese regulatory go-ahead to start human testing of their recombinant coronavirus vaccine, the company said in a disclosure  pdf  to the hong kong stock exchange on wednesday.  ...     the green light was doled out very quickly. it was only tuesday when cansino said it had filed the pre-ind review application for the vaccine to authorities and was in the process of a rolling submission of technical documents.  ...     meanwhile, amid growing numbers of infections in the u.s., the fda has allowed a phase 1 study of moderna is mrna vaccine without animal data. on monday, the biotech said researchers at the national institutes of health dosed the first subject.  ...     besides cansino and moderna, many other companies are also working on vaccines for sars-cov-2.  ...    i cannot tell you how much  bending of the rules  this is in china, since i am not familiar with their regulations. but the timing of the chinese announcement was roughly two days later after the us announced the first moderna vaccine dose having been injected into a human  on march 16 . interestingly perhaps, china is also developing a mrna vaccine  jointly developed by the chinese centre for disease control and prevention, tongji university and stermina in shanghai , but this one is still undergoing animal testing in china, with human testing announced to begin mid-april.  so yeah, the us  niaid/moderna  and china  cansino  are now basically in a  race for the  vaccine  cure . others will probably join. i suspect they might also benefit from regulatory fast-tracks, possibly depending how well politically connected they are in their test jurisdictions.  the eu has given curevac a grant to work on a mrna vaccine similar to the moderna one  however no human tests have begun with that--they have been announced for june. the who said that over 40 concrete vaccine candidates have been proposed, with at least a hundred in development.   the wsj reported  without a lot of specifics on the regulatory side that :    counting drugs approved for other diseases, there are 254 clinical trials testing treatments or vaccines for the virus, many spearheaded by universities and government research agencies, with hundreds more trials planned. researchers have squeezed timelines that usually total months into weeks or even days.  	
as of episode 8 of koufuku graffiti, there is been at least one shot per episode in which ryou is downstairs neighbor is briefly shown  usually standing on her balcony folding clothes or something .    is she ever going to be introduced as a character, or is she more just a running joke   answer as mentioned by krazer in the comment, she is yuki uchiki. she is finally introduced in episode 10 chewy, melty.  japanese title: hamohamo, michichi.  when kirin eavesdropped on her phone conversation and accidentally fell  and safely landed  on her veranda.  in the anime, episode 10 happened around january  as the next episode happened in february, and the previous episode happened on new year is eve . at this time, yuki was a graduating undergraduate student, while ryou and kirin were preparing for their high school entrance exam in march. according to her wiki page on nicovideo, she is going to work as a librarian at the same high school where ryou and kirin goes to. 	
first when the coronavirus outbreak happened in china, some people argued that the outbreak had to do with a supposed faulty chinese health care system, due to china not being a  developed country . but now in south korea and italy, supposed  developed countries  the cases are increasing even at over a 100  rate per day some days. now in italy the first cases appeared apparently in 31 january and in south korea apparently in 20 january. so in 3 / 4 weeks those countries jumped from units to hundreds / over a thousand cases. yet in another  developed country  like australia, the first case was reported 25 january , but the country was able to keep the number of cases below / in 23 for a month.   can be a factor contributing to the outbreaks in south korea / italy the fact that they are in the northern hemisphere / winter , and that australia is in the southern hemisphere / summer by february  could an outbreak as fast as those which happened in south korea / italy happen in a country which is in summer by the time it happens   answer this is not scientifically determined as of today  february 27, 2020 . in other words: nobody knows if temperature/climate/weather has an impact or not. see cdc website for detailed info on this aspect.  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html  i quote  as of february 27, 2020 :   q: will warm weather stop the outbreak of covid-19   a: it is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of covid-19. some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months. at this time, it is not known whether the spread of covid-19 will decrease when weather becomes warmer. there is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with covid-19 and investigations are ongoing.  	
i am looking for biological datasets with specific properties that are available for me to analyze. informally put, i have a hammer and i am looking for a nail. that is to say, i have an algorithm and i am looking for suitable data to test if it can tell us anything interesting about biology. let me start by characterizing the properties that i would like this data to have.  math properties  the data must be representable as signed directed graphs, which in less formal terms means that i am looking for a network where the connections between the nodes are arrows with a  /- sign associated with them.   the signed property of the edges must represent a property of the relation between discrete objects that only takes on one of two values. one way to get signed values from quantitative data would be to use the sign function, keeping only the relations whose sign of the quantitative variable were not equal to zero. another way is to encode boolean values, where false is - and true is  . i would like to further clarify that the data should not only conform to this criteria, but should have instances of both positive and negative paths within the data.  the directed property of the edges mean that we care to distinguish  a relates to b  from  b relates to a   order matters. both, one, or neither of these relations can hold in these networks between any two nodes a and b.   data properties  the data must be analyzable in the sense that i can obtain the data in a form where i can either  1  immediately analyze the data or  2  transform/manipulate the data into a form that i can analyze. as a computer programmer, i am likely to be able to find packages for  or code for myself  moderately arbitrary transformations as long as they are computable and interpretable. that is to say, in your answer i would like you to not worry too much about whether you have a ready-to-use software solution for analyzing or transforming the data. what i would like considered is whether there is  1  a direct download for a/the datafile s  or  2  an application programming interface  api  for downloading the data in either pieces or as a whole.   preference will be given to answers that do not cost money, and do not require creating accounts  although either are acceptable .   all else being equal, i would prefer larger datasets  n   1000  over smaller ones.   preference will also be given to answers where the dataset has additional variables are available on the vertices. for example, if the vertices represent genes, then additional variables on the vertices would mean more data is available that describe those genes.  academic properties  the dataset s  should be citable.  examples  while i am open to other biological subjects, there are two biological topics that i feel should be representable in the mathematical way i have described above.  the first is gene regulation data. the vertices would be genes, and for any two genes a and b we could have any of the following relations   gene a downregulates gene b gene a upregulates gene b gene b downregulates gene a gene b upregulates gene a   the second example i have thought of is in biological signaling as the signals are sometimes directional  sender to receiver  and might have some sort of sign  turn on/off, increase/decrease .  bonus points if the data is topical  covid-19/coronavirus-related for example .  data sources  i have downloaded a few datasets from biogrid, but i did not see the kinds of mathematical properties i was looking for in those datasets. if there are datasets here that you think meet my criterion, please mention them.  answer while this does look like a very nice approach, i would actually argue that there are  almost  no biological datasets, that can be directly used for your algorithm - you can only do a sort of meta analysis using results/predictions based on other datasets.  the reason for this is that the nature of a signed graph requires you to look at effects that can have opposite directions, which in biology pretty much restricts you to regulatory functions . the problem with that is, that is nearly impossible to directly measure regulatory effects. in all cases i am aware of, one has to measure the magnitude of an effect under different conditions and then calculate regulatory interactions based on that data.  this means any set of regulatory interactions you can put out into your network is already based on a given analysis with inherent assumptions and  potentially  biases.   this does not make the approach impossible, but i do think, it is something you need to be aware of, especially if you want to use multiple datasets.  as for actual datasets that would fit well:   transcription factors have already been mentioned in another answer other regulatory effects on transcriptions  promoters / enhancers  may also work, though in this case the  class  of the objects effected  genes/mrna  is different than the effector another type of biological network that might fit are metabolic / enzymatic pathways. for these you could either also look at regulatory interactions  which again may be tricky because both proteins and metabolites can have regulatory effects  or maybe also directly at metabolic flow: in this case nodes in the graph would represent metabolites and edges reactions that produce or consume them. the kegg database has large numbers of metabolic pathways for many different species.      i was trying to think of other things, but presence/absence of a signal probably does not fit and neither does classification into strong/weak signals  i.e. interactions  	
as education moves to the internet, so are research seminars. some of these seminars are regular and others appear to be temporary due to the covid-19 and the lockdown.   here are some examples from the american economic association   regular seminar s    the chamberlain seminar - a regular open online international inter-institutional econometrics seminar in honor of gary chamberlain  1948-2020   temporary seminars   virtual macro seminar series  online seminar in gender economics virtual io seminar ...    and also,   princeton webinar series on covid economics   beyond the aea list and the princeton webseminar, i am looking for links to find conferences, workshops, and talks hosted by economic research institutions from all over the world. one requirement is that registration be open to all, as some of the online seminars are reserved for faculty only.    update  virtual economics stores various online seminars with a super useful calendar.  answer i have two here to add to your list.   brookings insitute  http://www.brookings.edu/events/  st. louis fed economic lowdown  free   http://www.econlowdown.org/  there is also the national association of business economics  nabe  but to get access to their webinar resources you have to register on their site. i know this will not qualify as it is not free but they are a good source of up-to-date information. i felt that this would be a good share.   www.nabe.com    others that i just found: peterson institute for international economics  http://www.piie.com/events  national bureau of economic research  www.nber.org - click on videos   or   http://www.nber.org/video archives.html  organisation for economic co-operation and development  oecd   http://video.oecd.org/  world bank http://www.worldbank.org/en/about/archives/past-events 	
what does it feel like  answer what does it feel like  some cruise ship passengers described symptoms similar to the common cold or flu.  it is been a 2 on a scale of 10,  said carl goldman, who was hospitalized in omaha, nebraska, after flying home. however, a chinese postgraduate student described going to the hospital twice after her symptoms worsened, and feeling  a heavy head while walking, unable to breathe, and nauseous. 	
i shall be traveling to the us from india on 10th june this year for an internship, accompanied by my family. i booked a round-trip delta flight recently  it has a  2 hr layover at paris charles de gaulle. i am deliberating on whether to cancel my tickets and choose some other route. currently, there seem to 334 covid-19 cases in ile-de-france  source: wikipedia  but that does not appear to be a considerable percentage considering the  12 million population in the region.   i am looking for some advice here, preferably from someone who has visited charles de gaulle recently or is well aware of the situation there. obviously no one can accurately predict what the situation will be in june, but perhaps one can extrapolate a few things from the current scenario.   answer at the moment, assuming you are not a us citizen or permanent resident, or in a fairly small set of other aliens, you cannot enter the us within 14 days of being physically present in the schengen area. if that restriction is still in place on june 10th, you will have to cancel or re-route your flight.  but who knows: in three months  time, maybe the schengen area restrictions will be lifted.   maybe india will have millions of infections and be added to the restricted list. it is impossible to say.  if i were you, i would just keep my plans in place and adjust them as necessary closer to the actual trip, based on the public health measures in place at the time. 	
what are areas where irs guidance might be helpful    answer the coronavirus relief bill is not yet law, and the irs has yet to provide information about how it plans to implement the provision about the rebates. on the irs is coronavirus landing page, the agency is telling people not to call it right now and to check back for updates at a later point.  tax experts are hoping that the irs issues guidance to clarify issues about eligibility when taxpayers  situations differ in 2018, 2019 and 2020, as well as guidance about which nonfilers now need to submit a tax return in order to receive a payment.	
recently i caught a cold in presumably an amazingly short period of time   6h . from prior infections i had the experience to have 24 to 48 hours  left  being a bit ill, before being forced to stay in bed. observing my disease i asked myself what went different this time. in general i do not get ill too easy.   morning: got to work as usual feeling reasonably well 12pm: ate some sushi bought from a supermarket  3 pm: ate a bowl of strawberries - unwashed 6pm: already felt a scratchy throat 9pm: having a skype call planning some event, starting to have a headache  11pm: falling to bed really exhausted i did not have contact with visibly ill people during that day.   my theory now is, that the unwashed strawberries carried the pathogen. here are some thoughts that might support this:   since i got hit so fast i am assuming being exposed to a high number of bacteria. the pathogens where possibly passed by an ill harvester. strawberries being sweet, moist and un-chilled seem to be the perfect fertile ground for reproduction. the incubation period of colds is usually a lot longer  2-5 days . does a higher number of bacteria result in a shorter incubation period  washing the strawberries would have helped. the bacteria was just on the surface area, since the vessels of the strawberries of course where not alive anymore.   am i right with my assumptions or did i miss something  i would like you to confirm or debunk my theory of getting ill.  thank you   answer unlikely.  there are different viruses responsible for the symptoms grouped together as  common cold :  .....................................  : virus : incubation period :  :...............:...................:  : adenovirus : 4-8 days :  : coronaviruses : 2-5 days :  : rhinovirus : 2-4 days :  :...............:...................:      source: lessler, j., reich, n. g., brookmeyer, r., perl, t. m.,  nelson, k. e.,  amp  cummings, d. a. t.  2009 . incubation periods of  acute respiratory viral infections: a systematic review. the lancet.  infectious diseases, 9 5 , 291-300.  http://doi.org/10.1016/s1473-3099 09 70069-6   they all have been found to have an incubation period ranging from 2 up to 8 days. this includes  normal  infection, and i strongly doubt the strawberries will carry a lot more viruses than standard infections  see below . only 5  of cases will have an incubation period shorter than 20 hours. because they are distributed normally, it is very unlikely to have an incubation period of 3-6 hours, which is what you described.      it is important to wash all fruit and vegetables before you eat them to ensure they are clean and safe to eat.  most people are aware of the importance of handling meat safely, but many consider the risk of food poisoning from vegetables to be low.   it is a myth that a little bit of dirt does not do you any harm,  says dr andrew wadge, chief scientist of the food standards agency  fsa .   soil can sometimes carry harmful bacteria and, although food producers have good systems in place to clean vegetables, the risk can never be entirely eliminated.     source: nhs.uk   in the eu, imported fruits have a lot of regulations to match, and that they travel from the supplier to the consumer without being cleaned once is highly unlikely  still does happen sometimes, but highly unlikely . because the gems can be quite devastating and infectious, on should always clean vegetables to prevent those to spread, but it does not seem too dangerous missing one out.   also, think about exponential growth. if the amount of viruses in your body were doubled every 2 hours  i do not have any numbers for that, but anything above seems unlikely , and your incubation time was 30 hours earlier than expected, you would have to have taken in 215 more viruses than the normally infected.    most important:    since the virus is sensitive to ph and temperature, it replicates best below core body temperature and does not survive the acids found in the stomach, which means the virus does not infect the lower respiratory or gastrointestinal tract.    source: morgridge institute for research   this makes it even more unlikely, because the virus only has time to reach the nasal area until you have swallowed it.    bottom line: think about yesterday or the day before. with whom did you shake hands and touched your face afterwards without washing your hands  who did you stand next to that had a running nose  	
what are the rules of self-isolation  answer remember, the vast majority of australians are not being told to self-isolate. it only applies to those who have recently come back from overseas,  before midnight on march 28 - after then its forced quarantine , or if you have been in contact with someone who tested positive for covid-19. but if you are one of those people who has to self-isolate, it means that you need to stay away from all situations where you could infect other people. this means any situation where you may come in close contact with others  face-to-face contact closer than one metre for more than 15 minutes or being in the same closed space for two hours . you should avoid social gatherings, work, school, child care, university, sports gatherings, restaurants, and all other public gatherings. you should try not to leave the house. if your outside areas are a shared space in a building or apartment block, it is best to wear a surgical mask while out there. stay in your room and clean lots.  	
as reported on the bbc today:    the  us  president accused the who of being  very china-centric  and said they  really blew  their pandemic response.    dr tedros has now dismissed the comments, insisting:  we are close to every nation, we are colour-blind.     after first attacking the who on tuesday, president trump renewed his criticism at his press briefing on wednesday, saying the organization must  get its priorities right . he said the us would conduct a study to decide whether the us would continue paying contributions  ...     on tuesday, president trump had said the who appeared to be  very biased toward china .     they called it wrong. they really - they missed the call,  he said.  and we are going to put a hold on money spent to the who. we are going to put a very powerful hold on it, and we are going to see.    clearly  from the same article  tedros has rejected the notion that the who has a china-bias, but have they said anything more specifically rejecting the other accusations, i.e. that they  really blew  their response and that they  missed the call   when the pandemic started    similarly,    republican senator lindsey graham, a close ally of trump, vowed there would not be any funding for the who in the next senate appropriations bill.     i am in charge of the appropriations subcommittee. i am not going to support funding the who under its current leadership. they have been deceptive, they have been slow, and they have been chinese apologists,  graham said in an interview with fox news.    last week, republican senator marco rubio called for the resignation of who director general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, saying  he allowed beijing to use the who to mislead the global community .   these latter accusations from republican senators are even more direct and specific  than  blew  , accusing the who of deliberate deception, in cahoots with beijing, besides being  slow .  thanks to  italianphilosophers for finding this, fox news has been emphasizing this bit in their coverage of the republican-who spat:    last month, taiwan accused the who of ignoring a warning it sent in december about human-to-human transmission of coronavirus.  preliminary investigations conducted by the chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel coronavirus  2019-ncov  identified in wuhan, china,  the organization tweeted in january.   which may be what the us republicans are alluding to with  slow .  somewhat more obvious/predictible, fox news is critical of the who is criticism of the us travel ban:    the who responded to trump is travel ban on foreign nationals coming from china by saying that  travel bans to affected areas or denial of entry to passengers coming from affected areas are usually not effective in preventing the importation  of coronavirus cases and instead could have a  have a significant economic and social impact.     criticism of the travel ban and other pro-china statements have brought renewed questions about the u.s. funding the agency.    the latter issue has been the topic of two separate questions here e.g., so i do not want to reash that.   if the who itself has not replied to those  other  allegations of trump/republicans/fox-news/taiwan more specifically, has the who is record in this respect been defended by others, e.g. has the press said anything in support/defence of who is actions in response to the pandemic that can address some of trump is accusations  from those quotes that i have emphasized    answer for what is worth it, al jazeera quoted a third-party defence of the who:    jeremy konyndyk, a senior policy fellow at the center for global development, said the last thing the us and the who need right now is this sort of a fight.     it is a distraction from the need to focus on defeating this pandemic,  he told al jazeera.     no virus has a nationality and it is down to how the countries have handled the threat. the core information that was needed to understand this risk was available by the end of january - and it was available through the who. that information still is very accurate in terms of transmissibility and lethality of this disease, so that really should have been all for any country to take it seriously,  konyndyk said.     in general, i think the who has been further ahead of the curve and understanding the risk of the virus than trump is own administration has, so i do not think who is to be blamed for the us is sluggish response.     and also added this on their own:    the who declared covid-19 a public health emergency on january 30, nearly a month before trump tweeted:  the coronavirus is very much under control in the usa,  and a full 43 days before he declared a national emergency in the us.   i will accept a better answer in the sense that i asked in the question, i.e. if the who themselves explicitly defended their record/actions in response to those republican accusations.    similarly the guardian has an article defending the who with extensive quotes from experts and among those they have quoted a who official too  lawrence gostin :    who is total annual budget is about  2.5bn, and contributions from member states have not significantly increased over three decades.     the who is budget is around the equivalent of a large us hospital, which is utterly incommensurate with its global responsibilities,  said lawrence gostin, a public health law professor at georgetown university.  he also holds a who position, as made clear later in the article.   so, if the us president were a global health leader, he would be leading a call to at minimum double the who budget in the face of this pandemic.   ...      i have been a longstanding critic and i have described their performance on ebola as catastrophic. but i think overall their performance on this outbreak has been, not perfect, but pretty good,  ashish jha, a public health professor at harvard, said.     they have been very transparent as much as they have known the data. they have had daily calls, they have been very clear about the severity of this illness, and how the global community has to respond.     anthony fauci, the director of the us national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, and robert redfield, the head of the centers for disease control and prevention, took part in who conference calls about coronavirus from 7 january, according to sources familiar with the conversations.    gavin yamey, the director of duke university is center for policy impact in global health, said:  if the united states had followed the who is very clear advice on identifying cases, isolating cases and conducting contact tracing, then it would not be in the appalling situation that it is in today.     despite its declaration, the who did not advocate travel restrictions of the sort imposed by trump a day later on non-american travellers arriving from china. the president has pointed to this as an example of bad advice. but gostin, who is director of the who centre on global health law, said that the organisation cannot generally call for travel bans under international law - and such bans can be counterproductive, leading countries to withhold vital information for fear of economic isolation.     to blame the who for acting on the basis of international law and science in ways that are entirely consistent with what who practices have been for decades is the height of hypocrisy,  he said.    trump claimed that his ban  shut down  intercontinental transmission of the virus, but an abc television investigation found that there were 3,200 flights from china to the us in the critical period between december and march.   the guardian article does grant the who critics some points on taiwan:    the us president is accusations that the who is  china-centric  have more resonance with public health scholars. the who has largely excluded taiwan from its discussions, and dodged questions about the taiwanese response, which has been one of the most effective. but because of pressure from beijing - which sees taiwan as an integral part of its territory and opposes any form of recognition - the blindspot is a un-wide phenomenon.     i think the effusive praise for china, in the early days, was probably unnecessary,  jha said.    amanda glassman, the executive vice-president and senior fellow at the center for global development, said a deeper problem is the who is low budget and relatively toothless structure. unlike the nuclear watchdog, the international atomic energy agency, it has no redress against governments that do not cooperate.     it operates in countries at the pleasure and permission of the host country governments. so in the case of china, to be allowed to enter china, it was a negotiation to get there,  glassman said.  	
does who recommend routine wearing masks for healthy people during the 2019 ncov outbreak  answer no. who does not recommend that asymptomatic individuals  i.e., who do not have respiratory symptoms  in the community should wear medical masks, as currently there is no evidence that routine use of medical masks by healthy individuals prevents 2019-ncov transmission. masks are recommended to be used by symptomatic persons in the community. misuse and overuse of medical masks may cause serious issues of shortage of stocks and lack of mask availability for those who actually need to wear them. in health care facilities where health care workers are directly taking care of suspect or confirmed 2019-ncov acute respiratory disease patients, masks are an important part of containing 2019-ncov spread between people, along with other ppe and hand hygiene. for more information on medical mask use, click here.	
i read in a recent article    bangkok  the nation/ann : the government has decided to suspend visa  on arrival for visitors from 18 countries at a meeting on wednesday   march 11 , chaired by prime minister prayut chan-o-cha, also head of  the covid-19 management centre.   however, i read in a more recent article    bangkok  the nation/asia news network  - the government has put on  hold its plan to suspend visa on arrival  voa  for 18 countries and  visa-free entry from high-risk areas  south korea, hong kong and  italy  after an urgent meeting on thursday  march 12 .   i am an indian traveler and want to know whether visa on arrival is still valid or canceled. does anyone here have recent experience   answer this is the latest information in the iata website:    7. nationals of bulgaria, bhutan, china  people is rep. , cyprus, ethiopia, fiji, georgia, india, kazakhstan, malta, mexico, nauru, papua new guinea, romania, saudi arabia, uzbekistan, vanuatu and passengers with a chinese taipei  on the cover: republic of china taiwan  passport can no longer obtain a visa on arrival.   the update was published today http://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-news/1580226297.htm check back for further updates 	
can testing show if someone has had coronavirus and then recovered  answer yes, but it depends on what kind of test you do.  if you do an antibody test, in theory it could show that you had the virus and then recovered,  hotez said.    to do an antibody test, you would need to have blood drawn. but coronavirus tests in the u.s. are not being done this way.	
what is the current policy on birthing partners  answer expectant mothers should be encouraged to have a birth partner with them during labour and birth, the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists says, unless the partner is showing symptoms of coronavirus.  as local trusts may place restrictions on visitors, partners may not be able to go to antenatal appointments, or stay with women on antenatal or postnatal wards. but this does not mean they cannot attend the birth, as long as they feel well.  some nhs trusts will allow only one birth partner to be in attendance, where previously they had allowed two. there were reports that others had banned partners  attendance altogether, before doing a u-turn on official advice.    understandably, some pregnant women feel nervous about going into a hospital in case it increases their risk of catching the coronavirus.    maternity units are carrying out some consultations over the phone or via video link, but some in-person visits with the midwife are essential for the wellbeing of the mother and baby, the royal college of midwives says.    it adds that home births may no longer be available in some local areas, mainly due to staff and ambulance shortages, but maternity wards are being kept as separate from covid-19 treatment areas as possible.	
a u.s. company has instructed it is employees to work from home for a period extending 4 weeks following city and state guidelines as a necessary precaution in response to covid-19. subsequently company workers have set up makeshift offices at home in. what if anything at all about the  makeshift office  is tax deductible for the 2020 tax season   -next year .  answer you will probably not be able to take a tax deduction for this.   the irs requires that the space that you use for your home office is that the portion of your house is exclusively and regularly used for business purposes. it also must be the principle place of your business.  some employees can use the home-office deduction, but there are tests there too:   your business use must be for the convenience of your employer you cannot rent any portion of your home to your employer you have to meet the above  exclusivity/regularly  criteria   it is unlikely that you will be able to deduct a home office expense as a tax deduction for the 2020 tax year  2019 tax year has already passed  due to quarantine measures unless you continue to be quarantined for the remainder of the year  or a significant portion of it .  	
are there any clauses in a insurance contract that allows an insurer to not pay claims if too many people die from covid virus   is there a risk that insurance customers will be left out to dry   answer the insurance company could go bankrupt.  but a reputable insurance company will have their own insurance, called reinsurance, to protect their policy-holders and their investors from this possibility. 	
is covid-19 deadly  answer for most people, covid-19 causes mild respiratory illness. common symptoms are fever, shortness of breath and coughing. some people also get a runny nose or muscle aches, although those are far less common. for some people, the disease can progress to pneumonia, and it usually gets worse in the second week. estimates have varied, but the experience in china suggests the death rate may be about 1 per cent, although the who has put it slightly higher. but chances of dying depend significantly on age and state of health -- the very young rarely seem to be affected at all, while the death rate in the elderly is much higher, about 15 per cent. people with comorbidities such as heart or lung conditions, or diabetes, have a higher risk of death.	
i had symptoms that could have been corona symptoms last week. unfortunately the testing capacity in my country  germany  is not sufficient to test every person with symptoms at the moment, so only people who had verified contact can be tested, which i did not. it would be very useful, though, to know in hindsight whether i had it, since this would probably make me immune and thus make me much more flexible. for example i could help old or infected people without having to fear infecting them or me.  so is there or will there be a way to test later on whether i had it or not  or will i never be able to know   answer china has been using antibody testing to see if people had been exposed in their convalescent phase. the usa did not want to do antibody testing and have wanted to recover virus using a pcr test, but pcr will not show historical infection. open source antibody tests have been described but presumably will need to wait for fda/cdc approval   http://www.livescience.com/coronavirus-blood-test-antibodies.html http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.17.20037713v1  .  there is no guarantee that infection with one strain gives protection against other strains, nor that immunity is going to be long lasting.   http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic 	
how many children have been diagnosed with the virus  how many of them have died  answer among the more than 4,000 cases in the u.s. as of march 16, only 5  were people aged 0-19 years, according to the cdc. just 2 -3  of cases in that age group had to be hospitalized, and none were in the icu.    this week, however, health officials reported that a 17-year-old teen in new orleans died after contracting the virus. and a 2-month-old in nashville who tested positive for the virus could be the youngest patient in the nation, officials say. in china, at least one two-day-old infant had been infected, according to a who study.	
if a person tests positive for influenza, they are not tested for coronavirus. could a person have both  answer yes, a person could have both. this was the case for one patient in china, according to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention. the 69-year-old man in wuhan had both sars-cov-2 and influenza a virus. doctors initially diagnosed the man with the flu and later diagnosed the coronavirus.    doctors studying the patient said the case  suggests that covid-19 might be underdiagnosed because of false-negative tests for upper respiratory specimens or co-infection with other respiratory viruses. broader viral testing might be needed.     peter hotez, dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine, agrees.     i do not like that people are doing flu tests and saying therefore it is not coronavirus,  hotez said.  traditionally, for flu, we know it is possible to get other co-infectious with other viruses. 	
during the current coronavirus lockdown in the uk  england , is it legal for me to:    a  drive for over one hour  alone  to reach the start of my walk.    b  walk for 4-5 hours  alone  keeping at least 2m away from other people.    c  drive home again.   the law seems to say that i am allowed to leave my house for exercise but does not stipluate how long this should take. it also does not state that use of a car is not allowed.  edit:  yes, this question is against the  spirit  of the law, but that is not the question being asked, if we get into the morality of it then we have to start taking peoples rights into consideration, one of those rights is to go where they want and to do what they want, even if that means that someone else suffers in some way. people have fought and died for our rights over hundreds of years, you cannot just ignore that.  answer there is no clear answer, and i suspect an argument could be made either way.   the relevant regulations in this case are the health protection  coronavirus, restrictions   england  regulations 2020. in particular, regulation 6 1  states that:    6.-- 1  during the emergency period, no person may leave the place where they are living without reasonable excuse.   in this case, you would be relying on the reasonable excuse given in regulation 6 2  b :     2  for the purposes of paragraph  1 , a reasonable excuse includes the need-- ...    b  to take exercise either alone or with other members of their household    the regulations do not explicitly state:   how far you may travel for the purposes of exercise, how long you may exercise for even, in contrast with government advice, how many times a day you may leave your house for exercise.   it would require the interpretation of the courts to decide whether travelling for long distances was reasonable in order to take exercise, and whether exercising for many hours is reasonable. michael gove stated in an interview that:    i would have thought that for most people, a walk of up to an hour, or a run of 30 minutes or a cycle ride of between that, depending on their level of fitness is appropriate.   this is of course not law, but opinion  yet it is worth keeping in mind that the courts may take a similar view to this.  a strong argument could be made to say that this scenario is not in fact necessary exercise, but leisure, which is not considered a reasonable excuse in the regulations. equally, it could be argued that the regulations do support travel for exercise in any form. i do not think anyone could answer with certainty whether this is legal or not, until the law is tested on this point. 	
i am having a rather confusing financial situation. a the moment, i am having around 1200 euros a month on savings. i have the emergency fund already set up. the only huge debt i have that i need to take care off is my car which i am planning to pay it off in july next year. covid19 situation does not hinder my job as its deemed necessary by my company and hence i will be having a steady cash flow.   i am looking for a better investment scenario , as i would like to invest this money but would need to cash out the next year to pay the debt off for car. it is possible for me to risk the loss upto 20  of my total investment. i normally follow a value investment strategy and long term holding. i am also interested in reits but in general in order to cash out from reit, one must do that an year advance to liquidate and hence i believe this does not suit my situation. so none of the strategies that i know are helpful here. is there any specific investment that i can make during this year which gives me flexibility to invest my money     i am not really satisfied in leaving the money in the bank account doing nothing as i live in germany and the interest on savings accounts are as low as zero and is not much helpful.  answer if you can lose 20  and still make the balloon payment then only risk the 20 . based on your question you can set aside 1,200 a month for the next 15 months. since 20  of 15 months is 3 months take the next three months payments and invest it in a etf or mutual fund. the remaining 12 months keep it safe in a bank or cd.  you can do this because you already have an emergency fund, and you believe your job is secure. if you did not have the emergency fund you would send the extra amount there. if you were worried about your job you would not want to tie up money you might need soon.   of course if you can save interest by making the balloon payment early, i would wait until the last 3 months to invest, and make the balloon payment as soon as possible or even make a larger monthly payment. 	
i have observed a strange phenomenon. i my mouth is very sensitive to very hot liquids  like, freshly made tea, or just freshly boiled water , so when i make my tea, i usually wait around 20 minutes before drinking it.  i am also a fan of a particular 3 in 1 instant coffee  3 in 1 meaning instant coffe   instant milk   sugar . i am taking one pack of mentioned coffee  21 grams in one package , pouring it with with freshly boiled water, mixing the coffee with water using a teaspoon in room-temperatured cup, then i am going to the toilet for  5-7 minutes. when i come back from the toilet, my coffee is ready to drink. it is hottish, but i can drink it right away.  later on  2-3 hours later , i am making a cup of tea, using the same cup, which is in the room temperature again. i am pouring two teabags  4 grams of tea  with the same amount of freshly boiled water, and i make my breakfast. it usually takes me around 10 minutes to make my breakfast, and when i am trying to drink my tea right after finishing making by breakfast, it is still hot as hell. i am usually waiting another 10 minutes, then the tea is still hotter than the coffee after 7 minutes, but it starts being acceptable for my sensitive mouth.  i have even bought a food thermometer to check the cooling speed of both liquids, but because of the coronavirus outbreak it has not arrived yet, but my  internal  thermometer - my lips, and isides of my mouth cannot be wrong. i can drink the coffee after  7 minutes, and the tea after  20.  i would understand a little change in cooling time, cause we are talking about 21 grams of instant coffee-sugar-powdered mix, the liquid is a bit densier, maybe there is more energy used to dissolve the coffee ingredients, the instant milk contains fat, but still - i am talking here about 13 minutes of difference between the time when my mouth can accept the temperature of both liquids, and we have to remember that the tea is still a hotter 20 minutes after i pour it with boiling water than the coffee 7 minutes, but it is drinkable.  is there an explaination for this   answer i can think of two possible differences which might contribute this result, but i am not sure how you could test them. the different composition of the drinks will affect the surface tension. this could affect the rate of evaporation of the liquid. if this is the case, it may make a substantial difference to the rate of cooling as evaporation is probably the greatest cause of loss of temperature.  the other cooling effect which will be different is radiation. do you add milk to your tea  if the coffee is darker than the tea, it will radiate faster and cool faster for that reason.   if you do not add milk, the tea will be translucent. i am not exactly sure how that will affect things, because it means that radiation is possible from the interior, not just the surface. also it may not be translucent for the wavelengths radiated. but generally, i think a translucent substance will radiate much less.  	
is it safe to get carry-out food  answer the cdc and who have not issued formal guidance on carry-out food.while the cdc says that there is no evidence to support transmissionassociated with food, a person may get covid-19 by touching a surface orobject that has the virus on it and then touching their own face. the viruscan, for example, survive on cardboard up to 24 hours,  according to a recentstudy  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/ .the issue of carry-out food also raises concerns about  the risk couriers arefacing  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/food/2020/03/17/coronavirus-doordash-postmates-couriers-keep-regular-rates/5060297002/  by interactingwith customers during their shifts. that is why some companies are now offering  contactless  deliveryoptions  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2020/03/17/coronavirus-how-restaurants-adapting-uncertainty/5057617002/  that help people maintain socialdistancing by allowing couriers to ring the doorbell and leave the packageoutside.   study finds:   coronavirus can live in the air for hours and on surfacesfor days  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/ 	
starting friday the 13th, all non-usa passport holders are not allowed entry into the usa when coming from the schengen area. does this include layovers    i will be traveling from africa, laying over in frankfurt and finally arriving in dulles. as a us citizen, what will be the impact of my layover   answer   does this include layovers    yes, if you are an alien that does not fullfill one of the conditions of section 2 and were physically present within the schengen area during the 14-day period preceding their entry, when the plane departed after 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020    as a us citizen, what will be the impact of my layover    since a us-citizen is not a alien, the proclamation does not apply. entry conditions for us-citizens are not meationed in the proclamation.       section 1. suspension and limitation on entry. the entry into the united states, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of all aliens who were physically present within the schengen area during the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the united states is hereby suspended and limited subject to section 2 of this proclamation.  ...     answer containling compleate list contained in section 2      sec. 5. effective date. this proclamation is effective at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020. this proclamation does not apply to persons aboard a flight scheduled to arrive in the united states that departed prior to 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020.     04:59 central european time, saturday, march 14, 2020     sources:   proclamation -- suspension of entry as immigrants and nonimmigrants of certain additional persons who pose a risk of transmitting 2019 novel coronavirus   the white house    answer containling compleate list contained in section 2    	
i am a french citizen, legally married to a us citizen. i currently live in germany while my husband lives in the us.  i was supposed to fly to the us on sunday  march 15  on a lufthansa flight from frankfurt to visit my husband in the us for two weeks  until march 30 . i am wondering if i can still get on the flight, and whether i should.  it is clear in the presidential proclamation that the travel restriction does not apply to spouses of us citizens. however i wonder how this is enforced. i travel with my french passport and an esta  visa waiver , i do not have any spouse visa or anything. is it the airline who decides to let me on the flight  or is it up to the immigration officer once i arrive in the us   i also do not know if the flight is going to be cancelled. as far as the flight status shows, it is not cancelled, but i would not trust that.  to make matters more difficult for myself, i got a united reservation through chase is travel rewards program for a flight operated by lufthansa. if the flight is cancelled or i cannot get on it, any idea who i should turn to for reimbursement  so far i have not been able to get a hold of lufthansa customer service, they must be overloaded. i have not yet tried united or chase.  sorry this is such a specific and self-interested question, i just thought some of you might have similar situations or more information to share.  answer there are still a lot of unknowns at this stage, so it is quite difficult to answer with any degree of certainty.   i expect you would need to be able to prove to someone  probably the airline, and then again cbp upon arrival in the us  that you are the spouse of a us citizen. make sure you have a copy of your marriage certificate or other similar document, as well as a copy of your husband is passport. there is a strong probability that many flights will be cancelled, though as us citizens and their immediate family are still allowed to travel to the us, there should still be a few flights. which ones will be operating and which ones will be cancelled is the one million dollar question. you will have to wait for lufthansa to make a decision, taking into account that this could change quite late.   i expect airlines to get in touch with passengers to:   inform them of these new measures, and the exact details of what documents are required/allowed. probably ask information so they know which passengers are still able to travel or not, which in turn will let them decide how many flights to keep, and which ones.   given the surprise announcement, they are probably scrambling to make all of that happen.  if the flight is cancelled, you should be eligible for a refund. you should probably contact chase at that point.  if the flight is not cancelled but you decide not to travel, we enter in the very gray area that the airline is probably not legally required to refund your ticket. they will most probably instead propose rebooking at a later date or the like. the fact that it is an award ticket may change things  is the ticket refundable  . again, chase is probably the right point of contact for this.  edit  the lufthansa group have announced the cancellation of all but 6 flights to/from the us from march 14th:    the lufthansa group will continue operating flights from:      frankfurt to chicago and newark  new york   zurich to chicago and newark  new york   vienna to chicago and from  brussels to washington      beyond 14 march, thus maintaining at least some air traffic connections to the usa from europe. the airlines are currently working on an alternative flight schedule for the usa. passengers will still be able to reach all destinations within the usa via the u.s. hubs and connecting flights served by our partner airline, united airlines.    all other u.s. flights will be suspended until further notice due to u.s. administration restrictions, including all departures from munich, dusseldorf and geneva. the lufthansa group will continue to serve all destinations in canada until further notice.  	
how long will the coronavirus last  answer scientists are working on new technologies to try and develop a vaccine for covid-19.  the world health organisation said the first vaccines targeting the disease could take 18 months to develop, which would mean august, 2021.	
can humans become infected with the covid-19 from an animal source  answer coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in animals. occasionally, people get infected with these viruses which may then spread to other people. for example, sars-cov was associated with civet cats and mers-cov is transmitted by dromedary camels. possible animal sources of covid-19 have not yet been confirmed. to protect yourself, such as when visiting live animal markets, avoid direct contact with animals and surfaces in contact with animals. ensure good food safety practices at all times. handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care to avoid contamination of uncooked foods and avoid consuming raw or undercooked animal products.	
edit: after reading the comments and learning more about the current outbreak, i see that the premise of my question is incorrect. i mistakenly believed that the virus  mortality rate was around the same as that of the flu, when in fact it is much higher.    my understanding is that the virus  mortality rate is around 2 , which is similar to the flu. it is less deadly than sars.  so why are people so worried, and why are governments going to such extreme measures to prevent it from spreading  my guesses are:   we do not know enough about the long-term effects of the virus, so better safe than sorry the economic and social disruption caused by robust measures  e.g., quarantining  costs less than letting a new disease become pandemic, even if it is not particularly deadly mass hysteria fueled by the media and misinformation governments feeling like they have to appear responsive to popular concern lest they seem lazy this virus affects more developed parts of the world, so it is more visible the chinese government is over-the-top, authoritarian,  only in china -style measures have left everyone in such awe that they think,  this must be really serious    when in fact the government is real intention is perhaps to cover up how badly they botched their initial handling of the outbreak.    as for one is chances of coming into contact with the virus, the total number of confirmed cases in the world as of writing is around 80k. let is say that the true number is double that, or 160,000. that is still only  1.5  of the population of wuhan, the city where the initial outbreak occurred. why should anyone be in the slightest bit concerned about going for a stroll down the main street   i am not an expert in public health or medicine. it would be great to hear an expert is take on this question   answer the danger posed to society from this disease does not come from the mortality rate, rather from the potential to make large fraction of the population ill. unlike the flu virus, this virus is a new virus to which we have no immunity.  about 10  of the infected people requires hospital treatment, which is a lot higher than in case of flu. the death rate of the order of 1  is achieved thanks to excellent hospital treatment. with a far larger fraction of the population infected with this virus compared to the flu and a far larger fraction of the infected people requiring hospital treatment compared to flu, the available hospital capacity to give everyone the treatment they need can be easily exhausted. the death rate due to the virus will then increase.  also, people who need treatment for other reasons can then also fail to get prompt medical attention. people suffering a heart attack who would have survived under normal circumstances thanks to getting prompt medical attention, may now end up dying too.  	
i am wondering about an article in the economist here: http://www.economist.com/briefing/2020/02/29/covid-19-is-now-in-50-countries-and-things-will-get-worse there is a graph there   the explanation is as follows the course of an epidemic is shaped by a variable called the reproductive rate, or r. it represents, in effect, the number of further cases each new case will give rise to. if r is high, the number of newly infected people climbs quickly to a peak before, for want of new people to infect, starting to fall back again  see chart 2 . if r is low the curve rises and falls more slowly, never reaching the same heights. with sars-cov-2 now spread around the world, the aim of public-health policy, whether at the city, national or global scale, is to flatten the curve, spreading the infections out over time.  i am having trouble with this. there are 2 curves here. first of all, i am not sure of the different processes that determine them. it says one is without measures. the other is with measures. but it also says one is with high r and the other with low r. is r a fixed constant for a disease  alternatively, is there some variability in r and does that degree of variation affect transmission  this is not explained or stated in the article and i have not heard r described in this way. at best it is not written clearly in my opinion.   in addition, does without measures necessarily imply high r  is that what they are getting at  also, it looks to me as though the blue graph goes to zero very quickly, basically when t is equal to the mean of the orange curve. that means that without measures the epidemic will end quickly  because it exhausts all the possible patients .   finally the areas under the two curves is about the same. this means that the number of patients is about the same with or without measures.   anyway, can anyone clear up any of this   answer r is a reference to r0, otherwise known as the basic reproductive rate, and means the number of new cases from a single patient infection. r0 has to be above 1 for a disease to persist. it is a classic equation which account for the probability of transmission against immunity. the y-axis is the number of infecteds, very poorly presented.  the idea is that r0 will be lower if there is containment  less people to infect because you can not move around , but will last longer, possibly because the number of naive patients  not encountered the virus  will be larger over a longer period of time.   that particular graph appears to be saying that everyone at risk of infection will get infected with or without control measures  the surface area under the graphs is approximately the same   and the only thing that will halt the virus is acquired immunity. if this is mainstream economic thinking then i beg to differ, albeit i note the source is cdc  again see note  .   for example, all other respiratory viral infections are seasonal. if covid-19 is seasonal containment is the right choice, because the window of transmission is limited.   , given this is of cdc origin i think either its a mistake, or at the very least was taken out of context, because the idea is that overall there is a lower number of people infected as a result of  social distancing  and that does not appear to be what the two curves show. 	
has anyone had success getting airlines to issue refunds, or at least extend the value of unused tickets, for upcoming travel that had been booked long before the covid-19 outbreak    my question specifically concerns united airlines and non-refundable tickets to destinations that are not otherwise covered by any explicit guidance. i would be interested in hearing about others though.  it seems like airlines are offering flexibility for new travel bookings but not ones made a while back. and travel insurance will only cover you if your travel is individually impacted due to illness or quarantine.   answer your question is very generic, so i answer in general:  in general if a government  or an airline  does not stop travellers or planes, you will have no direct refund. it means that both think that there is no danger.  so usually it is recommended to have a travel insurance  for important/expensive travel, like far away for holidays . on the other hand, also a travel insurance may not allow you to cancel: it depends on the kind of insurance you get: some  the more expensive  does not ask reasons, other are more restrictive  and again, if you are not in a risk category, and there is no recommendation from government  they will not refund you.  on the other hand, this is a special  and global  thing, so to get good news coverage, they may end to refund you. cruise lines are starting this  also for old bookings , let is hope also the airlines will follow.  the reason about having such rules for new booking: they are trying to convince new people to book. without such incentives, many passengers will not book  and after booking many will travel anyway , this will keep cashflow. old booking: they have already paid, so if they do something, it is just to get good publicity.  because the airlines will reduce flights, you may hope that they will effect your flight, so that you can cancel/rebook  or having credit for next flight . 	
my state is not under any orders to stay at home. so i do not have to, right  answer the situation is changing daily, as it becomes clear the outbreak has spread to more parts of the country. the federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. even if you are not being told to stay at home, it is still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people.	
how old was the youngest person to die from the virus  answer a study of more than 72,000 cases in mainland china found that at least one person between ten and 19 years of age had died, but no one younger than ten had died. a subsequent study in the journal pediatrics found that a 14-year-old boy from china died in february after contracting the coronavirus.  it was not immediately clear if anyone younger had died elsewhere in the world.  by comparison, at least 155 children in the u.s. have died after contracting the flu so far this flu season, according to the cdc.	
