"you could ask, but you risk the seller deciding to just cancel and put the property back on the market once restrictions lift, shutting you out. depending on the exact neighborhood and local market, there is no guarantee that a recession will even affect the chosen neighborhood. you described it as a very competitive, presumably it will still be a desirable neighborhood even in a recession and you did not mention how vulnerable the local economy is to a recession. "
"at this time, cdc has no data to suggest that this new coronavirus or other similar coronaviruses are spread by mosquitoes or ticks. the main way that covid-19 spreads is from person to person. see how coronavirus spreads for more information."
" currently, there is no evidence to show that taking ibuprofen or naproxen can lead to a more severe infection of covid-19. people with high blood pressure should take their blood pressure medications, as directed, and work with their healthcare provider to make sure that their blood pressure is as well controlled as possible. any changes to your medications should only be made by your healthcare provider. "
"to add a more complete answer: the current coronavirus is closely related to the sars virus that caused the outbreak in 2004, and on which much research has been done.  here is a general review of the coronavirus epidemiology, life cycle etc.  i have not found yet any materials about the rna structures in the translatable region, however the structures in the 3  and 5  terminal regions are well studied and are known to be crucial for initiating viral replication and for its packaging.  this recent article addresses in details the rna structures in 5  terminal of human coronaviruses, whereas this older article describes the structures both in 3  and 5  terminals.  finally, the interesting algorithmic developments for the link that i added to the question are described here. "
"it is likely that the coronavirus pandemic will have a major impact on your daily life in the short term. mass events will be cancelled, sporting games will be played to empty stadiums, and it is likely that at some point your workplace might ask you to work from home. mass school shutdowns are a last-resort measure, and whether this happens will depend on what we learn about children is role in transmitting the virus. but these major interventions in your life will not last forever -- we are likely to see the virus peak in australia some time during winter, and the number of cases will then start to decline. there is a good chance that this virus will become endemic in the population like other coronaviruses."
"note: as can be expected from a dynamic event, this answer has changed a bit. the who now considers covid-19 a pandemic  when this answer was initially written, they did not: see the update at the end.  according to dr. anthony fauci, director of the us national institute of allergy and infectious diseases as reported by cnn:     it really is borderline semantics, to be honest with you,  fauci said.     i think you could have people arguing each end of it,  he said.  pandemics mean different things to different people.    the word pandemic itself refers to:    an epidemic of disease that has spread across a large region  for instance multiple continents, or worldwide.   given a broad definition like this one, it seems like yes, you could make a case that this is already a pandemic: covid-19 is found on all richly inhabited continents and is continuing to spread.  however, there are still many places that have few cases compared to the outbreak centers, and only a tiny percentage of the world population is known to have been infected  the latest who report covers nearly 91,000 cases, a large number, but a tiny percentage: only 0.0012  of the world population of over 7.5 billion .  by comparison, the 2009 h1n1 pandemic infected 11-21  of the world population.  organizations like the who have a more stringent operational definition of  pandemic , and none that i am aware of at this point have used the  pandemic  classification yet in an official pronouncement.  so, if instead of using a broad dictionary interpretation of  pandemic , we say:  considered a pandemic means a reputable global health organization classifies a pandemic , then the answer is:  no, covid-19 is not yet considered a pandemic as of march 3rd, 2020.  ultimately, it does not really matter whether the pandemic term is applied or not. it makes most sense to think in terms of actual numbers and the situation  on the ground , and to compare those to past outbreaks rather than worrying about the definition or declaration of  pandemic.   update march 11th  as of march 11th, 2020, the who now considers covid-19 to be a pandemic. consistent with this answer, the who stresses that this does not really change their guidance:     describing the situation as a pandemic does not change who is assessment of the threat posed by this  coronavirus. it does not change what who is doing, and it does not change what countries should do -   drtedros  "
"while there have been suggestions that a regular flu shot can help protect individuals against covid-19, bogoch said that is not true.   they do not protect against this particular infection. they do not protect against covid-19,  he said.  however, bogoch stressed that vaccinations such as the flu shot are still extremely important for optimizing health.   we should be up to date on all our routine vaccinations, our pneumonia vaccines, our flu vaccines, our regular vaccines, so that we can ensure that our health is optimized in case we come down with an infection,  he said."
"it is common for the reservoir host of a zoonotic virus to be tolerant of it. mers coronavirus appears to cause mild or no disease in dromedary camels   source  , but kills about 35  of confirmed infected humans.   cdc   sin nombre hantavirus seems to be mild in the deer mice that spread it, despite  36  fatality rate in humans.   source   mosquitoes are efficient vectors for flaviviruses like dengue and zika in part because they have adaptations we lack that protect them from the virus.   source   also, human communities are host to several viruses: about 90  of people have a herpesvirus infection   source   with similar numbers for polyomaviruses.   source   very few of these infected individuals show symptoms. the wide prevalence of these asymptomatic infections shows that the virus is successful when it can replicate while the host remains healthy. in general, virus reproduction kills cells, and when cells die faster than the host can replace them, this causes symptoms up to and including death. the host is immune system supresses virus activity, and a virus that can not evolve ways to avoid immune supression will be wiped out. but if the virus gets so good at avoiding the immune system, it will kill the host, which is bad for the virus. so both host and virus tend to evolve to a point where the immune system wins most, but not all of the time. there is a lot more to it, but i will stop here.  in conclusion, we do not really need to look for special properties of bats to explain their tolerance of coronaviruses, even though, as iayork points out, there are reasons to expect bats might be more resistant. "
"house republican whip steve scalise has given a press release which outlines the objections of republicans to the bill, calling it a wishlist of  insane far-left policies . the objections in particular seem to relate to the amount of non-coronavirus related provisions within the bill. republicans argue that these measures are unnecessary, and an abuse of the pressure currently on congress to come up with a rescue package.  i will not reproduce the whole list of provisions that scalise has picked out as objectionable, but they include environmental reform policies, an increase to the minimum wage, a law to force companies to disclose board of director diversity statistics, and a requirement that unions should have a seat on airline corporate boards. many of these policies seem tangentially related, if at all, to the covid-19 crisis.  these concerns have been echoed by other republican groups, such as the republican house oversight committee, who tweeted:    speaker pelosi is  coronavirus bill includes:       provisions for a federal takeover of elections  a climate change study on aviation  intrusive corporate diversity reporting burdens      seriously  now is the time to help struggling americans, not play  swamp politics with virus aid.   usa today has published an opinion piece by james s. robbins on the bill, which describes it as a  christmas in march for liberal special interests . in particular, robbins takes umbrage with the changes that would be made to elections:    perhaps the most troubling sections of the bill are under the rubric    american coronavirus/covid-19 election safety and security  or    access  act. this section would impose requirements on states for  early voting, voting by mail, required mailing of absentee ballots to  everyone, ballot harvesting  i.e., having third parties deliver  absentee ballots , online voter registration, same-day registration  and other practices which undermine confidence in the integrity of the  ballot. in these days of increasing threats to election security we  should be moving rapidly back to in-person paper ballots, but this  bill would be a radical step in the wrong direction.  "
"the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there.  for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19.  covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go."
"can i step out to withdraw money from the atm  yes, one can step out to withdraw money individually"
"yes, although people aged under 18 are less susceptible to the virus, according to the limited clinical reports available."
"seasonal coronaviruses come back year after year and we continue to suffer with them    researchers do know that reinfection is an issue with the four seasonal coronaviruses that cause about 10 to 30  of common colds. these coronaviruses seem to be able to sicken people again and again, even though people have been exposed to them since childhood.     almost everybody walking around, if you were to test their blood right now, they would have some levels of antibody to the four different coronaviruses that are known,  says ann falsey of the university of rochester medical center.    after infection with one of these viruses, she says, antibodies are produced but then the levels slowly decline and people become susceptible again.   similarly, the herpes zoster or chicken pox virus you recover from but when your antibody levels drop, it can reappear as shingles.  http://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2020/03/20/819038431/do-you-get-immunity-after-recovering-from-a-case-of-coronavirus  http://www.cdc.gov/shingles/about/transmission.html "
"insurance premium  you can cancel the insurance at any time before the coverage begins. the company website says    before the beginning of coverage, ... you can request a full refund at any time.    visa application fee  your visa fee is probably lost, but you might try asking if you can adjust your application dates. i would not hold my breath.  air fare  rebooking  subject to some conditions, you can probably rebook the air tickets without change fees:    swiss will waive its rebooking fees for all newly booked flights worldwide with immediate effect and until march 31 and offer a one-off free rebooking. for existing bookings, the new waiver policy will apply worldwide to all flights booked by march 5 with a departure date up to april 30, 2020. passengers will thus be able to rebook their flight ticket once to a new date up to december 31, 2020 without incurring any rebooking fee.   as noted by mark johnson in a comment, this policy applies to the entire lufthansa group.  refund  if you are lucky enough that your flight is cancelled, however, you might get a refund:    for cancelled flights: if you have booked through swiss.com or a service centre and you do not want to rebook your flight ticket, you can refund your ticket. to do so, please complete the refund form.    if you booked through an  online  travel agency, please contact the travel agency.   i say  might  because i do not know whether you would be able to get a refund if the flight is cancelled after you rebook it.  taxes and fees  even if you cannot recover your airfare, you should be entitled to a refund of certain taxes and fees for flights that you did not actually take.  possible insurance claims  if you have any travel insurance or other general insurance, you may want to look at whether it would cover any losses you incur. again, i would not hold my breath, but it is better to check now rather than to find out after the claim deadline has passed that you might have been eligible for reimbursement.  the swisscare schengen insurance seems not to include trip cancellation coverage, but i did not look very closely.  "
"ideally, suspected and confirmed 2019-ncov acure respiratory disease patients should be isolated in single rooms. however, when this is not feasible  e.g., limited number of single rooms , cohorting is an acceptable option. some patients with suspected 2019-ncov infection may actually have other respiratory illnesses, hence they must be cohorted separately from patients with confirmed 2019-ncov infection. a minimum of 1-meter distance between beds should be maintained at all times."
"yes. testing positive for either the flu or coronavirus does not exempt you from having the other at the same time.   the flu and coronavirus share some common symptoms, such as fever and cough.  but many coronavirus patients suffer from shortness of breath, and some people with coronavirus lose their senses of taste or smell. but it is important to note many people with coronavirus -- possibly up to 50  -- have no symptoms at all.  learn more about the differences between flu, coronavirus and allergy symptoms here."
"india is a large producer of hydroxychloroquine because, prior to the promotion of the drug as a potential treatment for covid-19, its most widespread use was as an anti-malarial drug. india has, according to the who is world malaria report 2019, the largest proportion of malaria cases outside of africa:    nineteen countries in sub-saharan africa and india carried almost  85  of the global malaria burden.   the report also notes that india is the only one of the  high burden to high impact  countries  basically countries most affected by malaria  to have significant domestic investment into dealing with the disease compared to the reliance on international aid. this has manifested itself in the form of pharmaceutical manufacturers which can supply india with its domestic demand for the drug, such as zydus cadila and ipca laboratories.  this forbes article notes that these companies in particular have significant capacity to ramp up production:     the priority is to manufacture this drug versus anything else,  says  sharvil patel, managing director at ahmedabad-based zydus cadila,  which had  1.9 billion in revenues in fiscal 2019.  we have ramped up  our production of hydroxychloroquine from 3 metric tons per month to  20 to 30 metric tons per month and can scale it up further to 40 to 50  metric tons if there is a requirement.     ipca labs, which has 20-metric-ton capacity, can produce 100 million  tablets a month.  the indian government has placed a significant  order,  says ajit kumar jain, joint managing director of ipca labs.   we can increase our manufacturing capacity to 26 metric tons in a  month or two. we are also simultaneously ramping up our packing and  labelling lines.      ...     sudarshan jain, secretary general of the indian pharmaceutical  alliance, an industry group, says that  the domestic demand is 3  million tablets a month but we have the capacity to go up to 150  million to 200 million tablets a month easily.  he adds that  it is  very difficult to predict demand going forward because we do not know  how many will be affected.    this is, of course, on top of the underlying fact that india is, according to raconteur, the largest provider of generic drugs globally, with its pharmaceutical industry is growing by 7 to 8 per cent a year, with growth of 11 to 13 percent expected in 2020.  it seems that india is prominence in the manufacture of the drug is due to existing infrastructure due to high existing domestic demand, and a strong underlying pharmaceutical industry, giving it the ability to quickly scale up production levels. "
"is it ok to go to the park in the neighbourhood for my morning walk  no. under the current circumstances, it is best to avoid outdoor activities. however, if you can find a time of the day when there is no one around, you can take a quick stroll."
"you are proposing to gazunder. i can not speak for what might be  best  for you personally, but i do not know of anyone who thinks this is a noble practice.    how would it be best to approach this   tell your conveyancer to tell the seller is conveyancer. both these parties might try and talk you out of it. "
"it is completely impossible to know what the situation will be mid-april. we may be in a global pandemic situation with all flights cancelled worldwide, or it may all have died down.  what you can see is the current status of flights these days, on flightaware for instance.  you will see that at time of writing, it is a mixed bag:   many recent/upcoming flights have been cancelled many recent/current flights are flying or have flown many upcoming flights are still scheduled, but that can of course change at any time.     it looks like turkish airlines are the most susceptible to cancelling the flights altogether in this situation, but it is still pretty hard to tell  and things can change in the coming hours .  right now, it will be completely impossible for you to get a straight answer from anyone, simply because the answer does not exist. nobody has a crystal ball, nobody knows what will happen in a month and a half. "
"democrats have been trying to make the case that the stimulus package contains within it a corporate  slush fund  controlled by the treasury department and headed by steve mnuchin, and democrats believe there is a high risk of mismanagement or outright corruption. from nymag:    the central flash point concerns a  500 billion corporate bailout.  ...    its requirements that bailed-out firms protect their workers are too weak.  protecting the workers is the whole rationale for bailing them out, after all -- at least from the democrats  point of view.  more disturbing, it is designed as a pool of money to be doled out by the treasury secretary. that is to say, the money is, for all intents and purposes, personally controlled by donald trump, who selected the treasury secretary, steve mnuchin, and could replace him on a whim.  ...   one obvious outcome of this financing arrangement would be to create the all-but-certain outcome that the treasury would select the trump organization as one of the worthy recipients of its largesse. trump is vacation properties have indeed been forced to shut down, and while an unbiased manager might not select the trump organization over needier coronavirus victims, trump himself probably thinks differently. indeed, at his press conference, the president did not even bring himself to deny that he might.  let is just see what happens,  he replied, as if the outcome might contain any mystery.   they also make the argument that the restrictions on the bailout fund that are in place to prevent some of the excesses by executives after the bailout of 2008 are weak, as are protections for workers who become unemployed. from politico:    according to a senior democratic aide, the party is concerns with the gop proposal center on  500 billion for corporations  stock buyback language that can be waived by the treasury secretary  only a two-year time frame on executive compensation limits  and no provisions to protect individuals from eviction.  ...  democrats also object to what they say is an insufficient amount of money for state and local governments and providing only three months of unemployment insurance. democrats initially asked for  750 billion in state aid, and republicans have countered with far less.   a further complication for the bill is the behavior by many of these firms and how they chose to spend money saved by the gop tax cut. instead of using that money to create rainy day funds, they instead used that money to repurchase stock in order to inflate executive compensation to the detriment of their workers. "
"i do not have a complete list of all the measures taken, but in large strokes, the following things happened:   schools were closed very soon after the first cases of covid-19 were discovered  large gatherings of people were prohibited  not more than 100, then after some period not more than 50   a state of emergency was declared when there were relatively few cases of infections compared to the population number  a lot of local districts started to take actions on their own, like closing public parks. the private sector also took action. companies encouraged employees to work from home, sporting events were canceled, stores changed their program or limit the number of shoppers at any given time, hypermarkets started to disinfect their shopping carts and protect their cashiers with glass windows, trains in the subway station would pull only one by one at the platform to limit the number of passengers that would gather together. because a state of emergency was declared, new laws were passed to control what people were doing. first there were restrictions to be on the streets between 22:00 and 06:00. this lasted for a few days, then restrictions were put in place all day. now or example you are not allowed to exit the home unless for some specific reasons like buying food, seek medical help, take care of elderly people, go to work, and a few others. people above 65 are not allowed to go out of their home unless they have an emergency. for other activities they are only allowed to go out between 11:00 and 13:00. stores reinforce this by allowing only the elderly to shop in that time interval. now all parks are closed. and groups of more than 3 people are disallowed. all shops and malls that do not sell food or things you need to survive were closed.   these are a few things that happened since the whole covid-19 cases started to happen in romania.  now, to your question. because we are in a state of emergency the law was changed to account for the pandemic situation. if you have returned from abroad you need to go into self-isolation or you are placed under quarantine  for 14 days if i remember correctly . you are not allowed to leave your house and friends, family or couriers must provide you with food and supplies. you do not interact with them, they just leave them at the door. if you do not respect these measures, the fines are now very large, up to 20000 ron  more than 4000 eur , and you can also go to jail. if you breach self-isolation or quarantine and you are discovered, you are being placed under military guard so you do not do it again.  now, with that being said, you can not really monitor 200000 people or keep them in check. there are controls, but you can not really keep them isolated. many were discovered wondering the streets, going to parties, visiting friends, etc by the authorities. it helps i guess that there is some panic and people will report those that they know came from abroad and are not sitting put  mothers have reported their children to the authorities, for examples .  so basically that is what is happening right now. we have lower cases of infections than other countries because everyone reacted quickly and took measures before things were bad. because movement is restricted this limits contact between persons. people also isolated themselves in the houses by precaution before the state of emergency was declared  for example, a few days before the state of emergency was declared, people hit the stores and bought all the flour and yeast, rice, canned produce, etc to stay in home for weeks  because of worry, fear, panic.  for further reference, some details on the infection in romania:  http://instnsp.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /5eced796595b4ee585bcdba03e30c127   on the left, in red are the total confirmed cases, in yellow are persons under quarantine, blue is people in isolation at home, in gray are the number of deceased people   my belief is that authorities panicked when they saw what was happening in italy for example  many romanians live there and return for easter holiday each year  so they took harsh measures before it was needed. it seems it helped. although they also took some bad decisions like limiting access to information  in the name of having it from official sources . i do not remember exactly, but i think that link above is from independently collected data, as authorities no longer report cases per district, but only globally.  edit: as a response to your comment i have looked up a few examples in the media:  1. in the first day of restrictions of circulation, 5,621 persons who did not comply with the measures were fined 7,404,297 ron  1,531,965 eur . that is an average of 1,317 ron  272 eur  per person.  2. in later news, the number of people who did not comply with the restrictions of circulation and were fined increased to 23,973, and an amount of 31,400,000 ron  6,496,730 eur . that is an average of 1309 ron  270 eur  per person. the same news mentions that for 209 persons a criminal record was opened and 4,235 were fined for non-compliance with the isolation/quarantine measures.  3. the news in point 2 did not mention how much the fines were for those that did not comply with isolation/quarantine, but in older news, 10 days ago, on the ministry of health is website it was stated that 1,835,000 ron  379,665 eur  of fines were applied to 120 persons for not respecting the measure of isolation. that is an average of 15,291 ron  3,163 eur  per person.  so the fines for breaking isolation/quarantine are quite large  plus getting a criminal record for more severe situations . for reference, the minimum net wage in romania is 1,346 ron  278 eur  while the average net wage is 3,189 ron  659 eur . so for a large number of people, the fines are quite large.  "
the chinese goverment are giving special permissions for companies and countries who wishes to evacuate their people / citizens from affected areas.  they will have to be screened of course before being allowed to leave but once cleared and special transport is arranged they are free to leave.  no normal commercial transport is available however so it is chartered planes only at that point from wuhan. 
"will i be penalised, if i break the lockdown  all lockdown advisories should be followed with utmost seriousness. the police can take punitive action against you if they feel your actions are endangering the lives or disrupting the law."
"both of them, but particularly cuomo, have received exceptionally high marks.   according to a siena poll posted on march 30th with data collected 3/22 - 3/26, approval of cuomo is pandemic response is 87-11, including 70  approval from republicans  deblasio is is lower, but still quite good at 61-31 approval to disapproval.     the above figures are specifically about how well they have done to address the pandemic, but cuomo is overall approval has also improved by 54 points to a near record high of 71-23.     http://scri.siena.edu/2020/03/30/87-of-nyers-approve-of-cuomos-handling-of-the-coronavirus/    the hill is also reporting on a national poll conducted by harvard caps/harris from march 24th - march 26th which shows cuomo with a national approval rating of 45 , nearly as high as trump with 48 . annoyingly, i can not find that actual data anywhere, so we just have to go off the quotes they provide:    forty-five percent of americans say they have a favorable view of how new york gov. andrew cuomo  d  is responding to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a new harvard caps/harris poll released exclusively to the hill.    harvard caps/harris polling director mark penn told the hill.  no question he is seen now as a leader at least with democrats and not seen as partisan since he is favorable right now by 2 to 1.     cuomo favorability in us hits 45 percent: poll   if we take penn at is word, that would mean that his approval is 45 , disapproval is   22  and no opinion is 33 . while 45  does not sound that high, i would argue that it is surprising for that many people nationwide to have a positive opinion of a local politician from another state. "
" there is a delay because the way it goes, you have people who get exposed  they get infected  the number of new infections, hospitalizations, critical care and deaths  follow ,  said dr. anthony fauci, director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases.    so even when you suppress or stabilize the number of new infections, it is still going to take a while before you see a decrease in hospitalizations, a decrease in intensive care, and a decrease in deaths. and in fact, deaths are the last thing that lag. so you could be doing well  with mitigation measures  and still see the deaths go up. "
"wuhan, a central city in china, implemented a lockdown on january 23 when the city is borders were closed, incoming and outgoing flights cancelled, public transport halted, and movement of people restricted. since then, other places in china and across asia have implemented different degrees of travel bans and lockdown measures to curb the spread of covid-19. more..."
"that story is from 2 days ago before it passed and is no longer a relevant point.   the issue was that 4 republican senators stalled the bill to try to weaken unemployment benefits. sanders made a counter-threat to stall the bill if they did not withdraw their objections, to prevent the senate from giving in to their objections.    sanders objected to an amendment proposed on wednesday afternoon by senators ben sasse  r., neb. , lindsey graham  r., s.c. , and tim scott  r., s.c.  that would cap unemployment benefits at a worker is previous salary level.    sanders, aoc threaten delays on  2 trillion economic stimulus - national review     unless republican senators drop their objections to the coronavirus legislation, i am prepared to put a hold on this bill until stronger conditions are imposed on the  500 billion corporate welfare fund,  sanders declared, shortly after sens. lindsey graham  sc , tim scott  sc , and ben sasse  ne  threatened to delay the senate bill.    sanders threatens to demand stronger conditions on  500 billion  corporate welfare fund  if gop moves to reduce benefits for laid off workers - common dreams    in the end, a compromise was reached where the republicans were allowed to propose an amendment to weaken unemployment benefits, it was voted down, and then the bill was passed unanimously.    they were given a vote on an amendment to pare back the unemployment benefits but the measure failed on the senate floor wednesday shortly before the bill is final passage.    senate passes  2 trillion coronavirus relief package - npr   at this point, the bill has passed the senate and, assuming the house approves it as is  which they are expected to , the senate has completed its role in its passage. "
"in the united states, any ventilator must fulfill:   safety and  efficacy    requirements as set forth in medical device standards.   sales of medical devices are regulated by the fda: a lengthy  data intensive  and paperwork intensive process. fda ventilator specific guidance within the context of covid respirator demand   i would suggest that you identify testable system requirements. the quickest way to learn is to operate an existing device: if you have access to a healthcare professional  anesthesiologist or respiratory therapist , he / she would be the best functional resource. a good starting point  do your homework before talking to anyone  is this functional explanation on youtube.   challenges for hacking a ventilator for the covid crisis comprises:   a design where parts  bill of materials  are readily available  100k to 1m devices needed  a testbed to demonstrate safety and efficacy testing   any required regulatory approval skilled labor to manufacture assemble and test   "
"properly chlorinated pool water kills viruses, but you can still catch the coronavirus at the pool through other means, including: if you touch a surface that has the virus on it, or if an infected person coughs or sneezes and the respiratory droplets enter your mouth or nose, according to the cdc."
"force majeure  an event like the current covid-19 event is what is known as a force majeure event  a latin term meaning  superior force . it refers to an event that is beyond the control of the parties to a contract such as war, civil disturbance, acts of god and disease.  common law jurisdictions  in common law jurisdictions  most of the english-speaking world , force majeure is not a legal doctrine but a creature of the particular contract. that is, the extent to which a contract does or does not deal with such events is the extent to which such events apply to that particular contract. for example, a construction contract may specify that a contractor is responsible for the care, protection and reinstatement of the works unless damage is caused by war. so, if the damage is caused by war the principal bears the risk but if it is caused by, say, flood, the contractor bears the risk.  if a contract is silent on the matter  in general or in the specific  then the parties obligations remain unchanged by the event and failure to comply is a breach of contract. for example, absent a provision in a contract, in the current pandemic:   if a supplier is contracted to supply a component that was made in a foreign country and that cannot now be sourced from there  they will be in breach of their contract if they do not supply it. if it can be sourced from a local manufacturer at twice the price of the foreign source then that is the contractor is loss. if a company is contracted to provide engineering services and their staff cannot travel  either because they are sick or because of government restrictions  then they will be in breach of their contract and the principal can seek damages. if a construction contractor is obliged to finish by a given date and the government closes all construction sites, they will be in breach if they do not complete by that date notwithstanding.   these may seem to be unjust outcomes but, at the end of the day, somebody in the contract has to carry the cost of force majeure events and the development of the common law has left it for the parties to decide who. that is, at the time of negotiating the contract, the law allows that if the parties wanted to consider the risks of say, a pandemic, and spell out whose risk that was, they were free to do so and if they did not that is their own fault - in the absence of such allocation, the parties must do what the contract says they must do. common law jurisdictions have traditionally not seen it as the role of government to interfere in the details of private contracts.  common law has a much narrower doctrine of frustration but this requires that the principal purpose of the contract be impossible to perform, not merely harder or more expensive to perform. even much harder or much more expensive.  civil law  in civil law jurisdictions  continental europe with their ex-colonies and most of asia , force majeure is a legal doctrine.   it is a defence to liability where the defendant:   had nothing to do with the event - this pandemic would fit, is unpredictable - it is not certain that the pandemic was unpredictable. there have been pandemics before and many organisations around the world exist specifically to respond to them. lest this seems needlessly pedantic, there have been cases decided that because a flood occurred 69 years ago, this flood was predictable  similarly, an avalanche 50 years ago rendered this one predictable. if predictable, then the defendant is obliged to have prepared for it. the consequences must have been unpreventable.   so, even though it exists in civil law it is not a get out of jail free card.  international law  the unidroit principles encompass force majeure as follows:    non-performance by a party is excused if that party proves that the non-performance was due to an impediment beyond its control and that it could not reasonably be expected to have taken the impediment into account at the time of the conclusion of the contract or to have avoided or overcome it or its consequences.      "
"health care workers collecting np and op swab specimens from suspected or confirmed covid-19 patients should be well-trained on the procedure and should wear a clean, non-sterile, long-sleeve gown, a medical mask, eye protection  i.e., googles or face shield , and gloves. procedure should be conducted in a separate/isolation room, and during np specimen collection health care workers should request the patients to cover their mouth with a medical mask or tissue. although collection of np and op swabs have the potential to induce fits of coughing from the patient undergoing the procedure, there is no currently available evidence that cough generated via np/op specimen collection leads to increased risk of covid-19 transmission via aerosols."
"we do not know what will be the case in summer - the current regulations will be  reviewed , but it is unclear when they will be relaxed.   for the current regulation the federal police  bundespolizei  has provided guidance. valid reasons include:   to work in germany to reunite with family   so yes, you would potentially be allowed to enter. if you are not married to your partner, her picking you up will only help mildly, as they cannot easily check if you are family. you can, however, bring your work contract to prove that you have to start there on day x.  note that this is by no means legal advice, and the situation will likely change until the summer. make sure you check the regulations before you leave, and try to confirm the rules from an official source. "
"in general, you are not freed of contractual obligations if your circumstances change, whether that is because of economic downturn / unemployment, weather, or disease. if there is a clause in the lease saying  this lease can be voided if tenant  becomes unemployed / contracts a disease....   then that could cover your circumstances  i would be stunned if there were such a clause . there is a separate question, whether an exemption might arise if the government forbids you to move. the existence of a legal  state of emergency  has limited implications for legal rights and obligations - mostly, it empowers the government to restrict your rights. there is no effect on your responsibilities. "
"flattening the curve refers to the rate at which people are getting infected. without intervention, the number of individuals who contract covid-19 rises exponentially, which means it doubles at a constant rate -- in this case, every three days. at such a rate, the number of infected individuals will overwhelm our hospital system, because we simply do not have enough hospital beds and respirators to treat them all. the united states does not even have enough protective equipment at present to protect its own health care workers.   doing the math, if one person is infected with the virus on jan 1, with the number of people infected people doubling every 3 days, then by march 31, over 1 billion people will have become infected. with the world population being around 7.8 billion, it would only take until april 9 for all of us to be infected.  the situation in italy has shown us that, without enough equipment, hospitals will be compelled to turn away some of the most infirmed among us, resulting in increased fatalities.     staying home does not prevent you from contracting the virus down the line, but from contracting the virus and overwhelming the medical establishment now. postponing exposure buys time for the scientific and medical community to develop effective treatments or a vaccine to minimize or protect against infection."
"the information that us intelligence services warned about a likely pandemic.  it is one thing to know that there was one case in washington or a lockdown in china, but another to know if an informed source such as us intelligence services consider it a threat.  this politico article goes into a bit more depths about this and the difficulty in actually prosecuting cases like this.  regarding what he did  wrong , there is also the issue of him not speaking out about trumps misleading statements downplaying the crisis when he seemingly knew better. "
"the last sentence is correct but there are some errors in the rest of the explanation.  a long put gives you the right to put the stock to someone else, meaning sell it at the strike price. this is a  10 put so if snap goes to  1, you would exercise the put, sell the stock for  10 and then buy it on the market for  1, netting  9 less whatever you paid for the put. this all assumes that the markets are open for trading.  if the financial markets are shut down, i assume that contracts will still be exercisable during a shut down and even if not, the occ exercises all options at expiration if they are one cent itm which i also assume would still be done. there might be an issue with ability to sell the stock.  "
"employers have to provide    http://www.osha.gov/sltc/covid-19/standards.html  a safe workplace  http://www.osha.gov/sltc/covid-19/standards.html  with policies that protect everyone equally. and if one of your co-workers tests positive for covid-19, the c.d.c. has said that    http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business- response.html  employers should tell their employees  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance- business-response.html   -- without giving you the sick employee is name -- that they may have been exposed to the virus.  many states have stay-at-home orders  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-stay-at-home- order.html , but even if your employment is exempt and requires you to come in, you could still ask about working from home. otherwise, you would probably have to use paid time off or take a leave of absence -- if that is an option."
"this happens quite regularly for multi-carrier trips. less so for single carrier trips.  airline search algorithms are often inferior  for single carrier trips, it is almost always because the airline is search algorithm does not find the trip you want, not because the airline does not sell it.  if the search tool is an in-house product, it may be inferior in an absolute sense compared to something like ita is qpx search, which many otas now use. writing a search algorithm for airline flights is a terrifically hard problem  formally it is classed as  undecidable  , and airlines do not hire the kind of computer scientists who can solve it efficiently. specialists like ita have hundreds of computer scientists.  alternatively, an airline is search may be tuned with different preferences to an ota. a lot of airlines try to avoid overnight stops, even if that would be preferable to three flights at a higher price. i would guess that is the cause of your sas problem here.  solutions   try the multicity search, and put some of the connecting cities in as if they were stopovers. when you choose the dates, choose the dates that you will actually fly that leg. this is often a good bet, but it sometimes causes the airline to price your trip with a fare break point at the stopover  i.e., as a sum of one way fares instead of a single through fare : iberia.com is particularly terrible for this shortcut. however, i notice sas has helpfully removed its multicity feature as part of the dumbing down exercise that makes the rest of its webpage unusable on a real computer. bookwithmatrix or google flights can sometimes link you directly to the desired itinerary on the airline is site.  if you do this on aa.com, you will find that you get kicked out at the payment stage if your credit card is address is not in the united states. but it turns out aa does not actually validate the country field, so you can just leave it set to united states.  call the airline, tell them what flight numbers you want to fly, and give them the price you expect. there is usually a telephone booking fee for doing this, although if you have some status with the airline it might be waived, particularly if you explain their website was not good enough to do it online. i used to have a friend at the amsterdam ticketing desk for british airways. in what i consider a crowning achievement some years ago, i constructed a price for a trip from information on expertflyer.com that was 50  lower than his system or any ota admitted, and after some back and forth with revenue management, he agreed it was a bug in their pricing system and sold me the itinerary at the lower price. :-       and if so, would this be standard practice, or should i expect it to be hit and miss depending on the airline     ba, aa, klm, 90  success rate, sometimes have to hang up and call again. qantas, jal, cathay pacific, their telephone staff and ticket desks are always reliable. air france, maybe 50 . iberia, alitalia, latam: total waste of time.   point-of-sale differences in inventory  sometimes, additional inventory is available in the city where the travel agent is based, compared to where the airline is calculating the price. to understand why that can be the case, you should know that  how many seats left for sale on a plane  is a function of the sales city as well as other factors. airline websites, in my experience, usually price from the city of origin, whereas agents usually price from a fixed point. one way to see this is from the payment currency, which will invariably be the currency of the sales city. for instance expedia.fr prices out of paris, regardless of whether the itinerary passes through that city.  this only seems to matter when the flight is filling up.  ticket issuance restrictions in the fare  sometimes, the airline really cannot sell you the trip. this may be because the trip comprises multiple fares and one of the fares has a restriction that it must be issued  on the stock  of a ticket airline. stock here refers to the old fashioned 4-part carbon paper tickets, but the concept is directly implemented in electronic ticketing. for instance, looking at a cheap s7 fare from london to yekaterinburg:  category 15: sales restrictions  tickets must be issued on s7.  note -  sales permitted on ticket stock validated or  plated s7/421 only.   even though a ba plane will fly you the first leg from london to moscow, ba could not sell you a journey involving this particular fare. airlines always sell tickets on their own  paper , not as agents for another airline  in this case, ba sells tickets on ba plate  ticket number starting  125-   and s7 sells tickets on s7 plate  ticket number starting  421-  . but a travel agent could pick any validating carrier with whom it has a ticketing agreement, subject to the fare rules and the agreement. so the travel agent has some additional flexibility.   this really only matters when you have a particularly complicated trip with multiple airlines who do not partner together very closely. "
"while it is still unclear if someone can contract the new coronavirus more than once, it is possible to have more than one different virus at the same time.  dr. isaac bogoch said it is absolutely possible for someone to have covid-19 and a strain of the flu or another virus simultaneously.   we sound like broken records in the medical and scientific community, but for the last two months we have been saying  we have got to prepare for this. we have got to prepare for this. optimize your health,   he told ctv is your morning on march 20.  bogoch said people should  optimize  their health by getting vaccinated for everything that they are eligible to be vaccinated for, such as influenza or bacterial pneumonias.   it is totally possible to have what is called a co-infection and we know people who have multiple infections at the same time can have a worse outcome,  he said.  "
"no. those products work on surfaces but can be dangerous to your body.   there are some chemical disinfectants, including bleach, 75  ethanol, peracetic acid and chloroform, that may kill the virus on surfaces.   but if the virus is already in your body, putting those substances on your skin or under your nose will not kill it, the world health organization says. not to mention, those chemicals can harm you.   and please - do not ingest chemical disinfectants."
"currently, the source of sars-cov-2, the coronavirus  cov  causing covid-19 is unknown. all available evidence suggests that sars-cov-2 has a natural animal origin and is not a constructed virus. sars-cov-2 virus most probably has its ecological reservoir in bats. sars-cov-2, belongs to a group of genetically related viruses, which also include sars-cov and a number of other covs isolated from bats populations. mers-cov also belongs to this group, but is less closely related."
"tom frieden, who directed the cdc for eight years during the obama administration, says it is too early to know exactly how transmissible the virus is, how long it lives on surfaces or how many people who get the disease become really sick.  there is still a lot we do not know about this infection. we do not know how readily it spreads, we do not know, really, what proportion of people get severely ill,  he told the hill. but what we do know is that the virus spreads from person to person through air droplets, much like an influenza. that makes it dissimilar from something more deadly, like ebola, which spreads only when someone comes into contact with another person is bodily fluids. there are signs, too, that the coronavirus can transmit even before someone shows symptoms, which is going to cause problems for health officials trying to contain its spread. now is a good opportunity to remind ourselves the lessons we teach toddlers: wash your hands a lot. cough or sneeze into your elbow. stay at home if you are sick. those little steps end up having big, positive consequences. anyone who comes into contact with someone infected with the virus should notify their health care provider, the cdc says. older people and young children, especially those with underlying health concerns, are at the most risk."
"there has been zero talk about cutting social security payments to people currently receiving payments.  there has been talk about cutting the taxes funding the social security system. the idea would be to make up the shortfall due to a tax cut by sending money from the general fund into the social security system. that plan has problems due to unemployed people not having to pay into the social security system, so a tax cut would not put money into their pocket. they might need money to pay rent and buy food.  a change to the formulas used to determine payments for people currently receiving payments would be a big deal and would not be done to counteract a short term crisis.  "
"how about using something other than zoom  other softwares support features that can help with this. moreover there are some serious security and privacy concerns about zoom  see e.g. this statement by the fbi and this investigation by the ny attorney general  bruce schneier has written an overview of the concerns here .  in our department we use bigbluebutton  website, wikipedia  for our classrooms and seminars. it is a completely open-source and free web conferencing system. there are a few services out there that host servers but they are completely overloaded at the moment. i would say your best bet would be to get your it services to host a server for your department. with bbb by default new users do not have their webcams activated, and you can prevent them from doing so. you can even prevent them from using their microphone and require them to virtually  raise their hand  before a moderator allows them to speak. that should cut down a lot of the abuse. you can also set up the service so that an account is required before accessing the meeting. unless the abuser is very dedicated, they probably will not bother creating dozens of accounts to continue bothering people after being kicked out, i hope.  also, something obvious: many abusers are specifically targeting zoom and going into random zoom meetings. unless you have somehow attracted abusers who are specifically targeting you, if you use something else  especially something hosted by your own department , you probably will not have any problems.  note: i am only recommending bbb because that is what we use at our department, but there are other services out there. i know another department has set up something called  panopto  for example, and another something called  classilio  - you will have to look that up, i do not know much about it. for informal meetings we use jitsi but it does not seem adequate for hosting a seminar. but in any case, if a software does not meet your requirements, you should definitely look into switching to something else, especially with the privacy concerns... "
"  why do not they reverse stock split to uplift their share prices    stock splits  and reverse-splits  are a zero-sum activity  minus what costs there are to actually implement the split . it is like trading 10 dimes for a dollar bill. the company is not worth any more or less after the fact. it used to be that a lower share price was desired since it would enable more investors that had to buy shares in 100-share lots. nowadays, with index funds dominating the market, that benefit has largely gone away, which is why you see companies like amazon and apple decide not to split their shares that are worth hundreds or thousands of dollars per share.   a reverse split may be required in order to stay listed on exchanges, but it often seen as a large negative signal, much like suspending a dividend.   so companies have no financial incentive to split or reverse split, but often have behavioral incentives not to reverse split. "
"yes, that is ok  just be sure to maintain distance from other people.  the cdcrecommends  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html cdc aa refval http 3a 2f 2fwww.cdc.gov 2fcoronavirus 2f2019-ncov 2fabout 2fprevention.html a distance of about 6 feet. even in states and counties where  residents arebeing asked to stayhome  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/03/21/coronavirus-lockdown-orders-shelter-place-stay-home-state-list/2891193001/  or   shelterin place  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/17/coronavirus-san-francisco-california-shelter-in-place/5073397002/ ,  it is still fine to gofor a run, hike or do other outdoor activities, as long as proper socialdistancing is observed.just do not be like chicago, where city officials closed trails and parks aftercrowds of hundreds of people were seen congregating along the city islakefront.remember: the white house recommends that you should avoid social gatheringsinvolving more than 10 people, as well as all non-essential travel, shoppingtrips and social visits.   social distancing:   why it is so important to stopping the spread ofcoronavirus   http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/2020/03/16/social-distancing-coronavirus-isolation-quarantine-pandemic-virus-infection-symptoms/5019940002/ "
"i would ask the representative. procedures differ wildly from funding agency to funding agency.   however, i would not be worried: everybody acted in good faith, and you are asking for less money. so in all likelihood the response will just be a short email thanking you for letting them know, and telling you that they look forward to receiving new applications from you in the future. "
"the key assumption you have made is assuming people in the us act sensibly, and that they would base their answer in the poll on facts. this assumption might not be accurate. a recent  jan 2019  study shows that facts might not be too important in this matter  1 .    inaccurate views of scientific consensus and the willful rejection of scientific consensus.  in a 2014 us survey  15 , two-thirds of respondents  67   thought that scientists did  not have a clear understanding about the health effects of gm crops,  despite broad scientific consensus on the topic  16 . similarly, half of americans  52   thought scientists were  divided  in the belief that the universe was created in the big bang, and about a third each thought that scientists were divided on anthropogenic climate change  37   and evolution  29  . of course, these data do not make clear the cause of these inaccurate views, which, arguably, could stem from people being uninformed, intentionally misinformed, or a bit of both.    furthermore, split-ballot survey experiments have shown that even when americans do seem to possess accurate knowledge of scientific consensus  however large or small that number may be for a given issue  there is no guarantee that they will integrate that knowledge into their attitudes or policy preferences  17 . in other words, these respondents know what the scientific community has established as fact, but they nonetheless refuse to  know  it. some have therefore argued that rejection of scientifically accurate accounts of the big bang or evolution by nonexpert audiences indicates neither a lack of information about scientific consensus nor the presence of misinformation, but, rather, motivated information processing  18 .  highlight mine .   given that the current us government places little value on facts and that  make america great again  was a slogan in the last election, i find it highly plausible that this is a factor here, too - that a certain amount of people simply want to believe that the us is the best in the world in everything, despite facts showing otherwise.  the study also finds:    when such directional goals influence reasoning processes, individuals are prone to  biased assimilation,  which is characterized by confirmation and disconfirmation bias, or the parallel tendencies to privilege information that is consistent with one is predispositions and to discredit information that seems contradictory  51 . as with selective exposure, motivated reasoning can contribute to an individual becoming misinformed, and it can occur not only in political contexts but also when individuals process information about science and emerging technologies  52-54 .   if you want to believe the us is  1 in everything, this seems to be a highly relevant point.  also, emotional state can be an important factor. and i think we can agree that the current crisis is a very emotional matter, and that believing the us is doing better than anyone else might be reassuring, even if it is not based on truth.    the role of emotion.  this brings us to discussions of the influence of affect in motivated reasoning processes. there is some evidence that a person is emotional state can shape the accuracy of his or her beliefs.  ...  notably, individuals  attraction to emotionally charged content is not limited to politics, and even when it comes to scientific discoveries, individuals are more inclined to spread information that has a greater emotional impact  59 .   1: scheufele, dietram a, and nicole m krause.  science audiences, misinformation, and fake news.  proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america vol. 116,16  2019 : 7662-7669. doi:10.1073/pnas.1805871115    so i think the answer is not that there are any objective metrics that show that the us is handling the crisis better in any way. the fatality rate is magnitudes higher  although it is too early to tell what the toll will be in the end , cases per capita are higher, total cases are higher, et cetera. i do not think there are those metrics that you are looking for. i rather think think it simply shows that a large percentage of the us population is either uninformed or misinformed, for various reasons as outlined above.    from the survey that was linked in the question, we can also see that the opinion on how the us is handling it relative to the rest of the world varies dramatically with the political orientation of the respondent, which would further back up that political orientation plays a significant role in how people perceive facts and responded.    the poll data for the question relative to south korea is roughly in the same boat, polarization-wise. only about 6  of republicans say the us is doing worse than south korea, whereas 45  of democrats say that:   "
"there are still a lot of unknowns at this stage, so it is quite difficult to answer with any degree of certainty.   i expect you would need to be able to prove to someone  probably the airline, and then again cbp upon arrival in the us  that you are the spouse of a us citizen. make sure you have a copy of your marriage certificate or other similar document, as well as a copy of your husband is passport. there is a strong probability that many flights will be cancelled, though as us citizens and their immediate family are still allowed to travel to the us, there should still be a few flights. which ones will be operating and which ones will be cancelled is the one million dollar question. you will have to wait for lufthansa to make a decision, taking into account that this could change quite late.   i expect airlines to get in touch with passengers to:   inform them of these new measures, and the exact details of what documents are required/allowed. probably ask information so they know which passengers are still able to travel or not, which in turn will let them decide how many flights to keep, and which ones.   given the surprise announcement, they are probably scrambling to make all of that happen.  if the flight is cancelled, you should be eligible for a refund. you should probably contact chase at that point.  if the flight is not cancelled but you decide not to travel, we enter in the very gray area that the airline is probably not legally required to refund your ticket. they will most probably instead propose rebooking at a later date or the like. the fact that it is an award ticket may change things  is the ticket refundable  . again, chase is probably the right point of contact for this.  edit  the lufthansa group have announced the cancellation of all but 6 flights to/from the us from march 14th:    the lufthansa group will continue operating flights from:      frankfurt to chicago and newark  new york   zurich to chicago and newark  new york   vienna to chicago and from  brussels to washington      beyond 14 march, thus maintaining at least some air traffic connections to the usa from europe. the airlines are currently working on an alternative flight schedule for the usa. passengers will still be able to reach all destinations within the usa via the u.s. hubs and connecting flights served by our partner airline, united airlines.    all other u.s. flights will be suspended until further notice due to u.s. administration restrictions, including all departures from munich, dusseldorf and geneva. the lufthansa group will continue to serve all destinations in canada until further notice.  "
"south korea has adopted a highly technical and transparent approach to covid-19. by sharing where infected people have been, citizens can see if they have been in contact or near contact with the infected person, and then request a test.    since the first cases were confirmed, korean public health authorities and local governments collaborated to precisely document the movement of infected people down to the minute. authorities sought testimony, watched closed-circuit television, investigated smartphone gps data and more, publicizing the so-called moving histories of covid-19 patients. all local governments share information through websites, text messages, and media. companies have developed apps that allow users to visualize the information. koreans can now learn where infected people went, when they were there, and how they got there. if someone learns they might have been exposed, they can quickly visit a doctor and begin self-quarantine if they have similar symptoms.    on february 4, the korea centers for disease control and prevention took advantage of the post-mers reform and authorized an unlicensed covid-19 test  the government went on to test an extraordinary number of people. by february 26, korea had tested 46,127 cases, while by that point, japan had tested just 1,846 cases and the united states only 426. tests still remain hard to come by in the united states, despite the trump administration is repeated suggestions that widespread testing is imminent.   there are few countries as technologically advanced as south korea that are able to adopt this approach without a wide spread lockdown. and it helped that they allowed the use of an unapproved tests whereas in the usa the cdc blocked the use of independent tests which has lead to their current deplorable state of testing.    following the end of the mers outbreak, south korea enacted a new law in 2016 that allows laboratories to use unapproved in-vitro diagnostic kits in the case of a public health emergency.   and     testing is absolutely critical with a fast-travelling virus like this,  says kang.  we have tested over 350,000 cases so far - some patients are tested many times before they are released, so we can say they are fully cured. altogether, we are talking about one out of 145 or one out of 150 people having been tested so far.    http://thebulletin.org/2020/03/south-korea-learned-its-successful-covid-19-strategy-from-a-previous-coronavirus-outbreak-mers/  http://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/03/south-korea-covid-19-containment-testing/ "
"generally, well-controlled means that your condition is stable, not life-threatening, and laboratory assessments and other findings are as similar as possible to those without the health condition. you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed."
"alcohols dissolve lipid bilayers  many viruses have an outer lipid bilayer. ethanol lyses cells, and in the same fashion damages membrane-bound viruses by rupturing the bilayer  which is made of ethanol-soluble lipids .   alcohols misfold the protein coats of viruses  additionally, alcohols denature proteins, which misfold in non-aqueous conditions. some viral surface proteins are important for adhesion and attachment, and misfolding these renders the virus inactive. the total breakdown of viruses is essentially due to the misfolding of their protein coat  the capsid .  the same goes for bacteria  with the additional effect of dehydrating cells  alcohols substitute the water contents of a tissue and have been as such used as fixatives. common laboratory examples include methanol and ethanol.  typically, 70   140 proof  ethanol is used for bench wiping to kill or inactivate microbes. this includes viruses.  this is all standard, common, easily and readily accessible knowledge. here is a bonus source. "
"question 1     ...  antibodies  ...  can last anywhere between a few weeks to a few months. the antibodies themselves though  which are proteins  definitely do not last forever  like all proteins . eventually certain suppressor cells kill off plasma cells after the response has taken its course, and all that remains are a few memory cells, which are reactivated again should the pathogen invade the body in the future.   source  question 2 and 3  yes.   here is an article from johns hopkins university. here is a paper by arturo casadevall and liise-anne pirofski mentioned in the above article and published on the journal of clinical investigation on march 13, 2020.     fun fact: i was about to say in the question that i tried to research but did not find anything. but i decided to make a last attempt, and actually found the answers... "
"according to the uk foreign office travel advice website http://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france    uk nationals can enter france if they have completed the necessary   attestation   see above  confirming that their travel is an  absolutely necessary journey.   therefore, it seems that although you are just passing through france, because you are entering french territory then you must still comply with these restrictions.  it may be best to contact eurostar and talk to them directly to find out more details for your situation and how they could help.  edit: as of 15:00 on friday 20th march belgium has also closed its borders for non-essential travel.  source: http://www.politico.eu/article/belgium-closes-borders-for-non-essential-travel/ "
"viruses remain infectious on cardboard for 24 hours, and 3 days on plastic and stainless steel. so do not fail to wash up after touching these surfaces."
"bcg vaccination appears to enhance the humoral response to general infection. there is said to be also enhanced response so therefore protection against influenza. the trial above is to see if it helps with a response against sars-cov-2.    there is some evidence that bcg vaccination enhances the humoral immune response to other unrelated childhood vaccinations, essentially acting as an adjuvant. ota et al. reported that infants vaccinated at birth with bcg had, upon vaccination against hepatitis, significantly higher levels of igg against hepatitis b vaccine antigens. furthermore, bcg vaccination given at the time of oral polio vaccine boosting improved the antibody response to polio, indicating an effect of bcg at the systemic level  154 . an australian study of 56 bcg-vaccinated and 52 non-bcg vaccinated infants found that bcg vaccination was associated with significantly higher igg titers against pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide antigens, h.influenzae type b polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid following routine immunisations later in infancy   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc6579862/ "
"some people with coronavirus have mild or no symptoms. and in some cases, symptoms do not appear until up to 14 days after infection.   during that incubation period, it is possible to get coronavirus from someone with no symptoms. it is also possible you may have coronavirus without feeling sick and are accidentally infecting others.   so anyone who has had close contact with someone known to have coronavirus should ask a health care provider about getting tested, the us centers for disease control and prevention said."
"businessinsider.com reported on this in an article back in 2015. the statistics were culled from major north american sports teams.    the amount of revenue generated by major north american sports team from the selling of media rights  tv, radio, internet, etc.  is projected to surpass the amount of revenue generated from ticket sales in 2018, according to a pricewaterhousecoopers report  via sports business daily . as a result, television ratings have now become the driving force behind sports, even bigger than actually bringing fans to the games. nbsp  nbsp source: why tv ratings in sports are more important than attendance - nov 17, 2015   and again three years later.    media rights -- or the fees paid to show sports on tv, the internet, and other distribution channels -- will remain the largest and fastest-growing bucket of sports revenues in north america, according to pwc is sports outlook. nbsp  nbsp source: media rights will continue to propel sports revenue - nov 28, 2018   although the wwe should probably be considered a secondary market, they have long embraced home pay-per-view and licenced satellite broadcast to bars and other public venues for  championship  events. cable sports networks broadcast matches of lesser importance on a regular basis and these would be subject to contractual fees as well. "
"this is not scientifically determined as of today  february 27, 2020 . in other words: nobody knows if temperature/climate/weather has an impact or not. see cdc website for detailed info on this aspect.  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html  i quote  as of february 27, 2020 :   q: will warm weather stop the outbreak of covid-19   a: it is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of covid-19. some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months. at this time, it is not known whether the spread of covid-19 will decrease when weather becomes warmer. there is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with covid-19 and investigations are ongoing.  "
"outbreaks can be stressful for adults and children. talk with your children about the outbreak, try to stay calm, and reassure them that they are safe. if appropriate, explain to them that most illness from covid-19 seems to be mild. children respond differently to stressful situations than adults. cdc offers resources to help talk with children about covid-19."
"the official rationale, according to trump is presidential proclamation, is that the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  could become overwhelmed  if sustained human-to-human transmission of the virus occurred in the united states on a large scale . it continues:    the world health organization has determined that multiple countries  within the schengen area are experiencing sustained person-to-person  transmission of sars-cov-2.     ...     the schengen area currently has the largest number of confirmed  covid-19 cases outside of the people is republic of china. as of march  11, 2020, the number of cases in the 26 schengen area countries is  17,442, with 711 deaths, and shows high continuous growth in infection  rates. in total, as of march 9, 2020, the schengen area has exported  201 covid-19 cases to 53 countries. moreover, the free flow of people  between the schengen area countries makes the task of managing the  spread of the virus difficult.    the united states government is unable to effectively evaluate and  monitor all of the travelers continuing to arrive from the schengen  area. the potential for undetected transmission of the virus by  infected individuals seeking to enter the united states from the  schengen area threatens the security of our transportation system and  infrastructure and the national security. given the importance of  protecting persons within the united states from the threat of this  harmful communicable disease, i have determined that it is in the  interests of the united states to take action to restrict and suspend  the entry into the united states, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of  all aliens who were physically present within the schengen area during  the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the  united states.   the reasoning exposed in the proclamation, then, is that due to the lack of travel restrictions between schengen countries, it is far harder to manage the spread of the disease by controlling inter-schengen migration. this factor is attributed by the proclamation as the main cause of community spread throughout the 26 member countries, and even goes as far as to tacitly blame the international spread of the disease on the area.  at a practical level, consider someone arriving to the usa from slovenia, a member of the schengen area. while slovenia itself only has 31 cases currently, it is impossible for usa immigration officials to tell whether that person has just driven from italy, which has over 10,000 cases. as a result, the trump administration seems to have decided that the best way to deal with this issue is a blanket ban  with some exceptions, e.g. us citizens, travellers invited by the us to aid efforts against covid-19 etc. see proclamation for full details  on travel from the schengen area countries and visitors who have visited the area within the last 14 days, the incubation period of the disease.  travellers from a non-schengen area, however, seem to be presumed to be able to prove that they have not been in any schengen countries in the last 14 days by their passport records, and as such the level of risk they pose should be able to be more easily evaluated.  however, as pointed out in the comments, inter-european travel does not involve passport stamping in some cases, for example from italy to the uk, so it will be difficult to identify these travellers practically. it is unclear how immigration officials will mitigate this.  the reasoning of the proclamation, however, remains that travel restrictions could be easily imposed between, to use our example, italy and the uk, meaning that travellers from the uk are lower risk.  update 14/03: the travel ban has now been extended to the uk and ireland, which calls into question the original official rationale, but does not change it. "
"no, there is virtually no risk to visiting qatar as a jew, nobody even needs to know you are one since us citizens can visit without a visa and your religion is never asked. you may draw some attention if dressed in full-on hasidic clothing though.  that said, for time being this is a moot point, since qatar has banned all non-citizens from entering until the coronavirus crisis calms down. "
"covid-19 has a more severe effect on the elderly and people with existing medical conditions.  according to a 2019 un report, 23 per cent of italy is population is 65 or older."
"a lot has to do with politics and history. while some places, like hong kong, have had extensive experience with serious outbreaks and quickly put in place a plan to contain the virus, others were slower to react and  failed to take the outbreak seriously enough  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/world/coronavirus-world-health- organization.html , according to the w.h.o. that is contributed to the lack of a united response. while the w.h.o. is supposed to coordinate the global response to epidemics, the group, a u.n. agency, does not have the authority to force countries to follow its plan. culture and government also play a role. chinese citizens responded quickly to aggressive restrictions put in place by their authoritarian government, while  italians were not initially as compliant  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/08/world/europe/italy-coronavirus- quarantine.html ."
"r0 is the basic reproduction number describing how many cases are expected to be infected by a single case. this value is not a biological constant.    with an r0  reproduction number  estimated at 2.5  based on china , many experts predict that between 20 and 60  of the world population could get infected  which means at least 0.5m deaths .    however, the r0 varies during the course of an epidemic as a result of a series of determinants and interventions   such as containment and mitigation factors, and eventually herd immunity and vaccination.  http://www.isglobal.org/en/coronavirus-lecciones-y-recomendaciones "
"this is a fast-moving crisis, and the social, medical and economic fallout is going to affect millions of people for months to come. there are many places you can go for help, whether you need relief from bills or are worried about becoming sick. there is a lot of information below about specific situations. here is a quick guide to some of the big ones that might be on your mind."
"regarding germany, austria, denmark, sweden, and norway, details can be found on the commission website. according to the table of all notifications, they all periodically invoke the  security situation in europe and threats resulting from the continuous significant secondary movements . this is obviously in blatant contradiction with article 25 but in practice that does not matter. you cannot find anything in there foreseeing unlimited extensions because there is not. it is as simple as that, no sophisticated legal wizardry is involved  regarding the fate of juncker is 2017 proposal: that limit has not changed since the current framework was introduced in 2013 and is still present in the june 2019 consolidated version of the borders code .  by contrast, france is strategy is to ignore the law entirely  as opposed to merely ignoring some specific clause of article 25 : introduce quasi-systematic checks on some borders, do not try to create half-hearted legal justifications, do not notify the commission or invoke some generic  persistent terrorist threat  applying to all borders and count on the commission to carefully avoid challenging france on this. back in 2015, the country suffered a string of deadly terrorist attacks and ultimately activated a state of emergency so that it had already invoked the right to reintroduce border controls and did not need any additional notification when the refugee crisis worsened.  the table on the commission is website gives some additional insight into how all this came to pass. back in 2015, many countries invoked article 28 with rather specific justifications related to the increasing number of refugees entering the schengen area. after this initial unilateral move, the council issued three recommendations to give these countries some legal cover  november 2016, february 2017, and may 2017  while roughly following the letter of article 25  no more than six-month extension at once, not more than two years of border controls in total . meanwhile, the commission initiated a  back to schengen  strategy to try to salvage open borders in the schengen area and make sure they appeared to be in charge.  but in reality, the countries in question were clearly intent on imposing checks no matter what, even if it was not possible to find some other face-saving legal basis. so when the last six-month period expired, they stopped being so specific and just reverted to a generic notification while everybody else turned a blind eye.  note that the commission does have a tool to enforce these rules and force a member state to, at the very least, make an effort to offer a more detailed legal rationale for its actions: infringement proceedings. for a long time, rules pertaining to the  area of freedom, security and justice  were subject to different rules but since 2014, it falls under the ordinary eu law regime. the commission has however been very shy in launching infringement proceedings on such a politically sensitive topic. "
"these measures are not effective against covid-2019 and can be harmful: smoking, wearing multiple masks, taking antibiotics. in any case, if you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing seek medical care early to reduce the risk of developing a more severe infection and be sure to share your recent travel history with your health care provider."
"questions about whether a certain action is  just  tend to be maters of opinion, politics and philosophy, but it can be addressed from the perspective of legal theory  especially following the model of common law, where legal principles are based on concepts of just and proper action . whether or not a certain action is actually legal in a certain jurisdiction depends on the laws of that country -- i suspect that the answer is different for the us versus china.  the first question would be whether those government officials have the legal authority - i assume they do. such authority is generally governed by some specific circumstances, for example,  poses an imminent and grave threat to public health . it is basically not a legal question whether quarantining in the face of this viral threat is necessary from a public health perspective, that is a medical question. what the law would say is that if this is a serious threat, then a person is liberty can be curtailed to a limited extent, because a person does not have the right to harm others because they do not want to do some thing that protects the rights of others  be vaccinated, stay in quarantine until it is safe . however, principles of legal justice also say that the government is response should be proportionate, e.g. shoot-on-sight in response to a sneeze is not proportionate.   quarantining has long been recognized as a valid, just and legal response to such extreme medical threats. historically speaking, quarantining used to be the only effective action that a government can take against e.g. smallpox, plague, spanish flu, ebola. "
"there are no approved therapies or drugs to treat covid-19. anecdotal reportssuggest that a known anti-malarial  hydroxychloroquine  combined with a commonantibiotic  azithromycin, sold as zithromax and z-pak  may offer some benefitin the treatment of hospitalized covid-19 patients.a very small  study in france  http://www.mediterranee-infection.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/hydroxychloroquine final doi ijaa.pdf  of just acouple dozen patients found some evidence that the combination was effectivein fighting covid-19. a  subsequent study  http://www.mediterranee-infection.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/covid-ihu-2-1.pdf mod article inline of 80 patients in france found clinical improvement in all but one.  studiesin china  http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.22.20040758v2  havesuggested similar results.researchers have warned that the drugs  can have risky sideeffects  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/24/malaria-drug-chloroquine-unproven-coronavirus/2900563001/  and could cause subtle heartchanges and increase a person is risk of developing arrhythmia.clinical trials of the drug combination  began in newyork  http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/amid-ongoing-covid-19-pandemic-governor-cuomo-accepts-recommendation-army-corps-engineers-four  on march 24,and the fda on march 29 granted emergency use of hydroxychloroquine byhospitals.  several otherclinical  http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results recrs  cond covid-19 term hydroxychloroquine cntry us state  city  dist  trials are in the works, according to clinicaltrials.gov. but it is still tooearly to say whether the drugs are effective."
"not everyone needs to be tested for covid-19. for information about testing, see testing for covid-19."
"  who officials have criticised the uk government is approach to the covid-19 pandemic   actually the quoted criticism does not come from the who, nor from a current employee of the who. it comes from     professor anthony costello, ex-director of maternal and child health at the world health organisation   the criticism is of the claim that the uk government should     just let 60  of the population get it    these appear to be the words of a radio presenter not a published policy of the uk government.  the uk is health secretary recently said herd immunity is not the policy of the uk government.     herd immunity is not our policy. it is not our goal. our goal is to protect life and our policy is to fight the virus and protect the vulnerable and protect the nhs. and that is what we are doing. now there is a, of course there is a scientific debate around scientific concepts, but i want to be absolutely crystal clear that we will do what is necessary to protect life,    so the premise is questionable.    the subject of herd immunity and the 60  figure came from an interview with the chief scientific adviser to the uk government. he was apparently speaking about the conditions for a potential resurgence of covid-19 next winter and beyond.       does the world health organization have the power to impose sanctions    not really, not of the sort the question seems to suggest.  the who did impose sanctions on a news-media organisation that leaked information in advance of a publication date. who banned the organisation from its press conferences for two weeks.  any un member state can apply for membership of the who. it seems likely the who can, as a sanction, expel a member from the who. i suspect only the un itself could expel a state from the un.  in the past, the who has been associated with criticisms of punitive sanctions on countries as hampering the objectives of the who. the who seems to generally aim to assist rather than punish countries.  like any individual or organization, the who can advocate for or against a sanction. as a un specialized agency it is likely to be listened to by the un assemblies. as i understand it, it does not have the power itself to commit the un to sanctions.  it is normally un member states who would apply and enforce punitive sanctions following a resolution of the un security council of which the uk is a permanent member with veto rights. "
"the main difference in stability is due to the very high amounts of rnase in pretty much all fresh biological materials. naked rna is easily degraded by just touching it with skin. the first step in most rna extractions is often to add an rnase inhibitor.  for example, from wikipedia is ribonuclease  rnase contamination during rna extraction:    the extraction of rna in molecular biology experiments is greatly complicated by the presence of ubiquitous and hardy ribonucleases that degrade rna samples. certain rnases can be extremely hardy and inactivating them is difficult compared to neutralizing dnases. in addition to the cellular rnases that are released, there are several rnases that are present in the environment. rnases have evolved to have many extracellular functions in various organisms.  "
"assuming you want to fly home  and you should only be trying to fly home , your best bet is the consular staff of your country. for example, various canadian government agencies are tweeting about flights to canada from specific airports. here is a snapshot of the feed of travel.gc.ca:    in addition to following your country  and subsets of it like the  canada in lebanon  and  canada in singapore  accounts you see in the screenshot  you should have registered with your government so they can email, call or text you, and you should probably have called your embassy or consulate for advice about how to get home.   if you are not trying to get home, but are trying to reach a relative or someone else who really needs you, these same sources are the ones that are likely to help you. if you think your travel need is not urgent enough to get an embassy involved, then stop trying to travel. people are desperately trying to get home, to reunite families, to get out while they can. if you have just always wanted to see a particular place, now is not the time.  bottom line: make sure at least one qualified human who is connected to your target country knows you are trying to get there, then start monitoring the heck out of airlines, airports, and those embassies and consulates on all the social media you can think of, and getting yourself on group chats and multi emails and facebook groups, so you will be notified when there is a chance to go. and be ready to go when the chance comes. "
"i do not appreciate being called  it imposes your time schedule on me. others differ. however, i suspect that email is your safest bet.  the practical problem is that many universities in germany have been closed due to covid-19, and the numbers listed will be the work numbers. either you are calling an empty office, or your call is forwarded to the persons home adress, which may not be what you want.   massimoortolano makes a good point in emphasizing the unannounced part of a phone call. you could sent an email to make an appointment. i would be fine with that. "
"no they will not. it is often enough to lubricate once when the bike was built unless it is used/kept for a very long time. especially if the bike is kept in a dry place. it is not necessary to lube it once a year. the lube stays there and protects the interface for a long time. if you pull a bike that has not been used for ten years from a shed, many things could be seized but even then seizing of the seat tube is far from guaranteed. it is even unlikely if it was well conserved before the storage.  interface of two different metals could change it due to electrochemical potentials and rusting. i assumed aluminium alloy on both sides or steel on both sides.  just do it the next year or when you get to your bike. "
symptoms show up 14 days after exposure to the virus.
"smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to covid-19 as the act of smoking means that fingers  and possibly contaminated cigarettes  are in contact with lips which increases the possibility of transmission of virus from hand to mouth. smokers may also already have lung disease or reduced lung capacity which would greatly increase risk of serious illness.smoking products such as water pipes often involve the sharing of mouth pieces and hoses, which could facilitate the transmission of covid-19 in communal and social settings.conditions that increase oxygen needs or reduce the ability of the body to use it properly will put patients at higher risk of serious lung conditions such as pneumonia."
"another possibility, ignoring fears of infection, is that the country does not want their citizens to become stranded in another country if flights are suspended at a later date. for example, on monday, march 30th, the uk foreign secretary dominic raab announced a ps75m plan to charter flights to repatriate stranded britons, and also advised any citizens still in countries where commercial flights remain available to fly home as soon as possible.  if a country is citizens become stranded abroad it will usually end up being the government is responsibility to fly them home. "
"if you have not  and will not  file your taxes for 2018 or 2019 then the only way to receive the check is to file for 2020 next spring. the check is actually an advance on a 2020 tax credit, so you can take it now or later.  however, for this year you have until july 15 to file your 2019 taxes. even if you have  200 in income for the year, might as well file so you get the stimulus check sooner.  note that if you are a dependent on someone else is return then you are not eligible for the stimulus check. "
"covid-19 is caused by a coronavirus called sars-cov-2. coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in people and may different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats, and bats. rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people and then spread between people. this occurred with mers-cov and sars-cov, and now with the virus that causes covid-19. more information about the source and spread of covid-19 is available on the situation summary: source and spread of the virus."
"pregnant women should take the same precautions to avoid covid-19 infection as other people. you can help protect yourself by:washing your hands frequently with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water.keeping space between yourselves and others and avoiding crowded spaces.avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth.practicing respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately.if you have fever, cough or difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. call before going to a health facility, and follow the directions of your local health authority. pregnant women and women who have recently delivered - including those affected by covid-19 - should attend their routine care appointments."
"no, there are no special procedures for the management of bodies of persons who have died from 2019-ncov. authorities and medical facilities should proceed with their existing policies and regulations that guide post-mortem management of persons who died from infectious diseases."
"the white house is asking americans to stay home as much as possible to slowthe spread of the virus, and some states and local governments have  issued stay home  and  shelter-in-place orders  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/03/21/coronavirus-lockdown-orders-shelter-place-stay-home-state-list/2891193001/ . i do not think now is the time to do it,  elliott said.  if you have a housesomewhere else, that is fine. but i would not recommend being in hotels orcrowded public settings. if you want take a road trip and go camping, there isrisk associated with that. "
"first of all,  the computation is very theoretic and not a good representation or guideline for adapting your behavior  just in case, if that is what you are after . in the comments i had already mentioned several points of critique for this approach:   the problem is that these computations will be based on highly subjective estimates about the underlying model/assumptions. yes, you can compute it.... but do not expect that the answer is rigorous just because it has used mathematics another problem is that the descriptions of contacts are very complex. how exactly are you gonna be in the description of the notime of contact   are you differentiating just the time of contact or also the type of contact  it is not a deterministic model and you need to deal with with distributions and stochastic behaviour that will make computations more difficult.  see for example the report about transmission of sars in airplanes: there were three cases described with an infected person on board. in one case tens of other passengers got infected. in the other two cases it was only one other person  a crew member  that got infected.  in addition, are you gonna describe the probability for a single person, or the probability for the public health  in high traffic the probability for a single individual might be low but due to the large number of individuals in those situations there might be a probability that at least one or more persons get infected.   for public health, the problem is not to compare cases based on the probabilities for individuals to become sick. but instead, the point is to reduce the probability for individuals spreading the virus, make others sick. in general those probabilities  to make others sick  are much higher with high traffic cases. sick people should not be around many other people.  there are many of these strange probability effects around. for instance, in europe there is a lot of focus on people who had contact with the high risk areas  and it seems to be ignored that one may acquire the virus locally as well.  indeed, when considering only a contact with a single person, then it is more likely to obtain the virus if this person is from  or had contact with  a high risk area. however, due to the much larger number of contacts with people outside the risk area it may be more likely to acquire the virus from one of those people, albeit the fact that the risk per contact is lower. still, it is not illogical to focus on the high risk areas. but that is more a consideration from the point of view of focusing the limited time, money and materials. yes, it is more likely to get the coronavirus from somebody that is not from the risk area is. but there are many other viruses from which one may obtain a common cold and we can not deal with all of those cases. when we wish to focus efforts on the most important cases, then the consideration is for which people the common cold is most likely to be due to the coronavirus. in that case it is linked to the high risk areas.      a possible solution  based on a simple model ,  let is consider the  unrealistic  probability of obtaining an infection, conditional on the other person being sick  this is a bit complex, there are different levels of being sick but let is consider this for single cases .  say, the probability noto get sick from a single contact of time  t   is a function of contact time according to some  sort of  homogeneous poisson process  ie. the waiting time to get hit/sick depends on an exponentially distributed variable and the longer the contact the more likely to get sick      p  text sick from contact time  t      1 - e  - lambda t     if you encounter  n  people, each for a time  t , sampled from a population of which  p    are sick...   then the number of sick people,  s , that you encounter is binomial distributed   p s s      n  choose s   p s 1-p   n-s    the probability of getting sick from those  s  people is:   p  text sick   vert t,s    1- e  - lambda ts    the marginal probability of getting sick is    begin array    p  text sick   vert t, n   amp     amp   sum  s 0  n  overset   substack  llap  text probability   rlap  text  to encounter        llap  text  s  sick    rlap  text people        overbrace p s s         times  underset   substack  llap  text probability to    rlap  text get sick       llap  text conditional    rlap  text  on       llap  text encountering  s     rlap  text  sick people        underbrace p  text sick   vert t,s              amp   amp  1-  sum  s  0  n   s  choose n   p s 1-p   n-s e  - lambda ts      amp   amp  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t  right  n   end array    where i solved this last term with wolframalpha.   note that      lim  n to  infty  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t/n  right  n   1 - e  - lambda t p      for a given fixed total contact  c   n times t  times  lambda  you get an increase as function of  n . for instance, if  c   10  then:    intuitive overview  below are two graphs that show the value of this term  1-  left 1- p   pe  - lambda t  right  n   as function of contact time  t  and number of contacts  n . the plots are made for different values of  p .  note the following regions:   on the right side the contact time is very large and you are almost certainly gonna get infected if the person that you have contact with is sick. more specifically for the lower right corner  if  n 1  and  t  is very large  the probability of getting sick will be equal to  p   ie. the probability that the other person is sick .  more generally for the right side, the region where   lambda t gt 1 , a change in the contact time is not gonna change much the probability to get sick from a single person  this curve  1-e  - lambda t   does not change much in value for large   lambda t  .  so if   lambda t gt 1   and you are almost certainly getting sick if the other person is sick  then if you halve the contact time and double the number of contacts, then this is gonna increase the probability to get sick  because the probability to encounter a sick person increases . on the left side for   lambda t  lt  1  you will get that at some point an increase of  n  with an equal decrease of  t  will counter each other. on the left side it does not matter whether you have high traffic short time vs. low traffic high time.         conclusion  so, say you consider total contact time  n times t  being constant, then this should lead to a higher probability for getting sick for higher  n   shorter contacts but with more people .   limitations  however the assumptions will not hold in practice. the time of contact is an abstract concept and also the exponential distribution for the probability of getting sick from a single person is not accurate.   possibly there might be something like contact being more/less intense in the beginning  to compare in the simple model the probability to get sick from a single contact of time  t  is approximately linear in time  1-e   lambda t   approx  lambda t   also when considering infections of groups, instead of individuals, then there might be correlations like when a sick person sneezes then it will hit multiple people at the same time. think about the cases of superspreaders, e.g. the case of the sars outbreak in the amoy gardens apartment complex where likely a single person infected hundreds of others    so based on the simple model there is this effect that of for a given total time of contact,  n  times t , is better to spread it out among less people,  n .  however, there is an opposite effect. at some point, for short  t , the transmission will be relatively unlikely. for instance, a walk on a busy street means high  n  but the contacts will not be meaningful to create a high risk.  potentially you could adapt this first equation  1 - e   lambda t   but it is very subjective/broad . you could think like something as the  5 seconds rule   which is actually not correct but gets close to the idea .  use of the simple model  although the model used here is very simplistic, it does still help to get a general idea about what sort of measures should be taken and how the principle would work out for a more complex model  it will be more or less analogous to the simple model :   on the right side  of the image , it does not help much to change  reduce  the contact time, and it is more important to focus on reducing the number of contacts  e.g. some of the rigorous advise for non-sick family-members that are in quarantine together with sick family members are not much useful since restricting   lambda t  for large   lambda t  has little effect and it would be better to focus on making less contacts  go cook yourself instead of ordering that pizza   on the left side, reductions should be weighed against each other. when restrictions that reduce high traffic are gonna lead to low traffic but a longer time then the measures are not gonna help a lot.   a very clear example: i am currently waiting in line to enter the supermarket. they have decided to reduce the number of total people inside the supermarket. but this is entirely useless and possibly detrimental. the total time that we are in contact with other people does not decrease because of this.  and there are secondary effects: partners alone at home with children that have to wait longer. potential shopping at multiple markets because time is limited at single markets. etc. it is just silly   i am letting the older people in the line pass before me since the health effects may be worse for them. and in the meantime i make myself annoyed about this symbolical useless measure  if not even detrimental  and have sufficient time to type this edit in this post, and in the meantime either make other people sick or become sick myself. "
"will i able to withdraw money  yes. cashier and teller operations of banks, including atms, falls under the essential category list."
"this is basic epidemiology. when medical professionals notice that a group of people with some characteristic in common, are being seen for a similar disease, they ask if there is a connection. in this case, several people in wuhan were diagnosed with severe pneumonia, and the doctors noticed that they worked in the same location.     three adult patients presented with severe pneumonia and were admitted to a hospital in wuhan on december 27, 2019. ... her occupation was retailer in the seafood wholesale market. ... he had been a frequent visitor to the seafood wholesale market.   --a novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in china, 2019  you are more likely to follow up when the disease is unusual or severe, and when the connecting factor is unusual or suspicious. in this case, the severe pneumonia was presumably unexpected, and live animal markets always have potential for disease transmission.    in fact, it is quite possible that the virus had been circulating in the region for weeks before this cluster was noticed, and that previous cases had not been surprising enough to trigger the research needed to identify a new virus  though it is also likely that the medical personnel in wuhan had noticed that there were an usually high number of pneumonia cases and were already looking for a connection.   see also the answers to how did scientists discover hiv . old-fashioned epidemiology is always critical.  the same article explains how the virus was sequenced:    bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid samples were collected in sterile cups to which virus transport medium was added. ... rna extracted from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid and culture supernatants was used as a template to clone and sequence the genome. we used a combination of illumina sequencing and nanopore sequencing to characterize the virus genome.    and isolated:    ... supernatant from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid samples was inoculated onto the apical surface of the cell cultures. ... after three passages, apical samples and human airway epithelial cells were prepared for transmission electron microscopy. ...    so briefly, they took patient samples, grew them on cultured cells, used electron microscopy to check the kind of virus. they sequenced fluid  not cells, since the virus would be secreted into the fluid, making it a relatively pure source of virus rna  and then sequenced using a standard high-throughput sequencing approach  knowing the likely kind of virus would make this easier but is not essential. there would have been lots of human rna in the sequence, but it is easy to bioinformatically separate that out and limit your analysis to the viral sequences. the virus isolate was also not essential for the identification  knowing the sequence is the critical information today. but having a virus isolate certainly makes all the subsequent work much easier.  this is pretty standard modern molecular biology, not an esoteric skill. "
the number of cases of covid-19 being reported in the united states is rising due to increased laboratory testing and reporting across the country. the growing number of cases in part reflects the rapid spread of covid-19 as many u.s. states and territories experience community spread. more detailed and accurate data will allow us to better understand and track the size and scope of the outbreak and strengthen prevention and response efforts.
"you have 3 options.   your us entry could be still valid for a few months. usually, an entry is valid for 6 months. you can plan to stay in us till situation is clear and flights are open to colombia. it can be a few months. if your entry is expiring, you can apply for an extension. you can contact your embassy about the possibility of repatriation or any other help. even if normal flights are not allowed, repatriation with quarantine might be possible.  "
"it is a nice idea. sadly it will not work but there is still some interesting physics involved.  as a general rule resonance is only an efficient way to transfer energy to an object if that object has a high q factor. a high q factor means the energy supplied builds up and increases the amplitude of the oscillation, and this may get large enough to damage the object. this is the  alleged  mechanism for the shattering of wine glasses by overenthusiastic sopranos. wine glasses have a high q and you can tell this by the way they ring for a while when you tap them. as a contrast, potatoes have a low q and do not ring when you tap them. so our sopranos would have a hard time shattering a potato.  the problem with using ultrasound to kill cells or viruses is that in general they are squishy low q objects like potatoes, not high q objects like wine glasses, and they do not store the energy of the sound efficiently enough for the amplitude of oscillation to build up to destructive levels. so the technique simply will not work.  ultrasound is used to kill tumours, but this does not work by resonance - the energy in the sound simply heats the cancer tissue and kills it. it is used for tumours because the sound can be focused onto the tumour where it causes local heating. this would not work for viral infections since the virus is distributed throughout the body not concentrated in one area onto which the sound can be targeted.  even if viruses were brittle like glass it would still be hard to make them resonate enough to be damaged when they are in a fluid like water. there are two reasons for this.  firstly water is much denser and much more viscous than air so it efficiently damps the vibrations of any objects moving in it. for example if you tap a glass underwater it will not ring as it does in air. so even objects that have a high q factor in air will have a drastically lower q factor in water. this applies to viruses in humans since as far as sound waves are concerned human tissue is little different from water.  secondly sound waves are a compression wave and they propagate by alternately compressing and expanding the water. the amount the water compresses and stretches is determined by the bulk modulus and this is relatively high. that means the amplitude of the wave is small unless the energy is very high, and consequently the mechanical deformation of objects in the water by the wave is small. this makes it hard to deform the virus enough to damage it. "
"there are a couple reasons:   you do not qualify. from your link:    distributions taken from qualified retirement plans received during 2020 of up to  100,000 for covid-19 related purposes are allowed without a 10  penalty, taxable evenly over 3 years beginning with year of distribution, and may be recontributed within 3 years. related purposes include a covid-19 diagnosis for you, your spouse or dependent, and financial hardship as a result of business closures, reduced work hours, lay off, furlough, lack of child care or other factors as determined by the treasury secretary.   if this does not apply to you, you can not do this anyway. taxes. there is no penalty, but the withdrawal is still subject to taxes. you get to delay paying them, but they are at a higher rate than they would be if you withdrew at a slower rate and had no  or little  other income.   additionally, you say     alternatively, we could put it into the s amp p 500 or treasury bills, etc.    you could do this inside your 401 k  without having to pay income taxes  at least until you actually withdraw . "
the national and local public health authorities in the country where you plan to hold the mass gathering will most likely know how to conduct a health risk assessment. if there is a who country office there they may also be able to provide some expert support. so too might the who regional office in your part of the world. you can find the names and contact details of the who regional offices at http://www.who.int/about/who-we-are/regional-offices
"never. only in the early wars between france and england, but then it did not mind whether the enemies were in which territory and the border were unclear and the definition of the border was the cause of the war.   how would they have been able to   a  control a border that was the longest of the world   b  of two countries that have not been fully explored  c  and the border was not clearly defined.   even not 1850.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/pig war  1859   and what sense would it make to close a border of 2 countries if you can not control it as there are so few inhabitants like in montana, idaho, wyoming etc   even today it must be rather a symbolic gesture to close the border: highways, railway, airports.   http://www.cgpgrey.com/blog/canada-the-united-states-bizarre-borders-part-2 "
"this puts students on unequal footings. not all students have access to webcams, a stable internet connection, or even more basic, access to a quiet room where they can work for several hours straight with no interference, for example. and what about disabled students who need special accommodation, e.g. someone to write down the answers for them because they can not move their arms, blind students who need other kinds of accommodation, etc   where i work, university is a public service and we can not sweep such issues under the rug. maybe you can, but you should think long and hard about whether you want to. "
"staying home prevents you from contracting the virus. but, more than that, it prevents you from transmitting the virus to others. governments, health organizations and medical professionals are urging us to stay at home to flatten the curve. "
"if you are too unwell to breastfeed your baby due to covid-19 or other complications, you should be supported to safely provide your baby with breastmilk in a way possible, available, and acceptable to you. this could include:expressing milk relactation donor human milk."
"it is certainly appropriate to ask. virus or not, the world will move on from this crisis, hopefully in a timeframe of a few months, you will still need a job, and the university will still need faculty to teach classes and do research. students will still need to be educated. higher education can be affected by economic recession, put probably less so than many other sectors of the economy. so do not panic.  so yes, it is fine to send them an email and politely inquire about the status of the search. keep in mind that it is possible they are scrambling to figure out how to keep instruction going and dealing with other urgent matters around the current crisis unrelated to faculty hiring. so the most likely response you will get is they are still figuring things out and do not have any news. "
"the  incubation period  means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease. most estimates of the incubation period for covid-19 range from 1-14 days, most commonly around five days. these estimates will be updated as more data become available."
"so long as they are not listed as a dependent for someone else  and, as retirees, fall within the income thresholds , yes, they should receive a check."
"you can not make a market prediction based purely on the current market value. the value is a function of supply and demand. to make any sort of reasonable prediction you would need to understand population in your area and predictions on population growth/shrinkage, demographics e.g. are the sort of people who would buy an apartment likely to increase as a proportion of the population in your area, and are there already any house building initiatives planned in your area to meet any expected population growth. these are some of the immediate local indicators which is possible to find out about. then there may also be macro/global factors which may not be possible to predict e.g. if coronavirus suddenly wiped out 5  of global population what effect would that have on global property demand  basically unless you can do extensive research and analysis then you are better off trying to find an expert with some relevant credentials, or not attempting to time the market at all. "
"the situation is changing daily, as it becomes clear the outbreak has spread to more parts of the country. the federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. even if you are not being told to stay at home, it is still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people."
"yes, by all means keep looking for a position. the future is unknown. things may settle down or not, but it would be a mistake to wait until they do before you even begin a search. but email responses may be slower than usual and people may need to be more tentative. expect that.   i suspect things will be hard for a while, but no one expects it to be permanent.   you can not win the game if you do not play.  "
"people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick."
"we can see here how paul voted on the bill you mention in your question, when he was the sole senator to vote against the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act. subsequently, he also was one of eight republicans who voted against the families first coronavirus response act.  as paul tested positive for covid-19 on or before 22nd march, and went into quarantine, he was unable to take part in the various cloture votes on the cares act, nor the subsequent 96-0 vote on the final bill, and is recorded as not voting.  interestingly, he did release a statement on march 20th that said he would shortly introduce his covid-19 recovery act, which he said would provide  relief to american families and businesses without adding to the skyrocketing debt that also threatens our country.   given the passage of the cares act, this seems to have now been shelved. "
"this is a question on the minds of just about everyone in the fx markets right now. unfortunately, there is no great answer. it is sort of like asking if stocks are going to go up or down. i will list here the three big things that will determine the value of the usd in the medium term. there are many others but i believe these to be the big ones.   1  the decrease in economic activity as a result of the coronavirus should be strongly deflationary. this can increase the amount of stuff that a dollar can buy because there is not as much demand for the stuff. so effectively the dollar strengthens.   2  a flight to safety during time of stress where the usd is generally considered the safest currency. the dollar has generally been strengthening against other currencies. part of this strengthening has been related though to the fact that a lot of borrowing happens in usd and when you borrow usd and then lose money you have to pay back the usd that you lost. this has meant dollar buying, which has certainly contributed to the recent dollar strength.   3  stimulus/relief efforts on the part of the federal gov not to counteract the economic effects of the virus mean more debt to gdp. giving people money to spend like this in inflationary, which should reduce the value of the dollar. the more debt you have relative to your ability to pay, then the more those lending to you should theoretically charge you in interest because you are a riskier borrower and less likely to make good on all of your payments.   so we have two deflationary effects and one large inflationary effect. the depth and length of the crisis will determine how much dollar  strength   we see from  1 and  2, and the gov not response to the depth and breadth of the crisis will determine  3. they are intertwined.   here strength is relative to the price of goods and used in the deflationary sense of strength. "
"this is highly unlikely to happen, according to scientists and vets. there have been no cases of pets passing the coronavirus to humans, and the same was true during the sars outbreak in 2003, when there was not a single case of pet-to-human transmission. sars is a very closely-related virus to the coronavirus that causes covid-19. it is possible that a pet is fur could become contaminated if an infected person has previously touched or stroked the animal. as always, you should wash your hands with soap and water after handling an animal or its lead, and avoid touching your nose and mouth. the novel coronavirus is thought to have originated in wildlife and passed to humans via a live animal market, but it is likely the first people infected actually ate infected meat. since then it has been spread from person to person. however, a malayan tiger at the bronx zoo recently tested positive for the virus. she was thought to have been infected by an asymptomatic zookeeper, so there is evidence of human-to-animal transmission."
"one of the most important  things you can do to help manage your grief  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-grief- loss.html  includes acknowledging it in the first place.  the more we can say to ourselves and the people around us,  yes, these are meaningful losses,  the more seen and soothed we will feel,  lori gottlieb, a therapist and author, recently wrote in the times. ms. gottlieb recommends staying in the present as much as possible, versus thinking about the future or ruminating on things that have not happened yet. try the   both/and   http://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2020/03/a-therapists- guide-to-emotional-health-in-a-pandemic/608161/  method: let yourself feel your loss in the present while simultaneously promoting feelings of safety by taking actions like reading a book or video-chatting a friend. and realize that there is no one-size-fits-all for grief -- everyone expresses it differently. let yourself do whatever makes you feel best, whether that is taking some alone time in your room or stress-cooking."
"you can try to fill the gaps in your knowledge and skills. for example, learn some techniques that are commonly used in your field. even if you will not need them for your immediate project, there is a chance that they will be useful for the next one. for example, if you do engineering, you are likely to need to write some code, so you can improve your software engineering skills. your colleagues may give you some more ideas on what is useful to learn.  if you feel sick of reading papers alone, you might try to reach to other junior students and form a virtual study group where you discuss and critically analyze recently published papers. you may actually come up with some ideas for research project based on the discussions. good luck  "
"if your relative stays at home without contact with anyone from the outside world, they have zero risk of getting the disease. if a relative living in the house needs to leave daily they risk exposure and getting the infection. the relative at home now has a non-zero risk of getting infected.  if the relative at home is independent then they should be left to live alone, and the working relative move in with someone else. if that is not possible, then another person not known to be infected should move in with her, and the working relative moves out.  if the working relative is the main carer for the relative at home, and the above choices are not possible, then they have to manage the situation as though they already have the virus.  the recommendation is that you are not going to transmit the infection to someone who remains at a 6 foot distance away from you, and if inside that distance for less than 10-15 minutes. so, that stops viral droplets from one person passing to the next.  viral nuclear droplets form when aerosols develop, eg flushing the toilet, so the toilet lid needs to stay down when flushing, and keep windows open. even better still use different bathrooms, or build a composting toilet away from the bathroom shared with the other person. if you are not able to not share bathrooms, then all the surfaces needs to be wiped down with .1  solution of bleach after each use of the bathroom, and left to dry for 10-30 minutes. each door knob needs to be disinfected. there can not be any shared eating utensils. and most importantly the hands need to be washed for a minimum of 20 seconds using a soap/detergent.  even if people live together, studies in china showed that cross infection was not inevitable, but closer to 20  of households had transmission.  http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-stay-at-home-guidance/stay-at-home-guidance-for-households-with-possible-coronavirus-covid-19-infection "
"it creates losses.   first, many businesses do not own their own building/land/equipment. it is very common to lease these things. moreover, many business take out insurance that again has to be paid on monthly basis. in europe in many countries you need to pay workers certain portion of wages even when you can not call worker to work or even if they stay home sick.   the list here is not exclusive. the point is many business have non-trivial fixed costs that have to be payed whether business operates or it does not. furthermore, in short run even some variable costs - like wages to employees on production line are fixed  and in many countries this can be up to several months . hence, it is not like a dormant business have no costs.   you might ask why then we do not suspend for example these leases etc. but that just moves the problem to the different parties and does not eliminate this issue.   moreover, very large business might have enough financial cushion to absorb losses for few months, but there are many small-medium size business that can not do that. for example, consider a sole trader  a form of business organization where one person embodies a business  who has a repair shop with no employees just living month to month. that kind of businessman can not afford to go on hiatus for very long.  furthermore, if by long you mean not just weeks but several months or even year that would be issue even for the best cushioned business.  so yes the impact could be catastrophic. for example according to this vox blog the impact under some scenarios could be worse than recent 2008 crisis.   "
"the steps taken to contain the outbreak, such as locking down areas and shutting down traffic flows, have shut down businesses and forced consumers to stay home. many people have lost their jobs and their incomes, further reducing consumer spending, which makes up 60 per cent of the china economy and 70 per cent of that in the west. more..."
"if college students are at least 17 years old and are claimed as a dependent on their parents  return, their family would not receive any payment amount for them. a college student who filed his or her own return and was not claimed as a dependent on his or her parents  return would qualify for the rebates."
"if you have been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. they should give you advice on how to get tested and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. the centers for disease control and prevention says that if you are sick or think you are sick, but only mildly ill, you should  isolate yourself  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/steps-when- sick.html , and you should not leave your house except to go to the doctor."
"keeping some liquid cash is sensible, but the exorbitant rates on your debt will hurt you long-term. pay them off as quickly as safely possible.  since you have high-interest debt, getting rid of that debt is more important than maintaining a large emergency fund. having both savings and overdraft fees is illogical. however, i understand that you would rather have cash than paying of other debts if you expect to be laid off soon.  to save the most money, the optimal solution is to pay off the highest-interest debt first. here, that is the overdraft.  unless you will also be able to pay off the other debts within a couple of months, it could be sensible to refinance. a small loan for ps5000 at 6  over 12 months    ps440/month  could give you breathing room to pay off all high-interest debts and stabilize your finances - if you are still eligible for such loans.  aside from affecting job stability, the covid-19 situation does not change a lot. if you have struggled to live without debt pre-corona, it will not get easier now. that is why it could be helpful to pay off as much as possible now, so that you are not saddled with endless interest payments in more difficult times: who knows how long this crisis will last  and you need to figure out why you have so much cash and so much debt, but that is out of scope here. "
"please look up flavivirus wouldouble loops  as you described them previously  post for  coronavirus rna   and associated rna secondary structure anomalies for dengue virus and associated vaccine  butantan  and the yellow fever virus and its vaccine  17d . if you are aware of  double loops , we must be aware of the association of rna secondardy structure and attenuated strains, i.e. live vaccines. the point is that modification of the rna secondary structure is a key strategy in flavivirus attenuation.  "
"while we are still learning about how covid-2019 affects people, older persons and persons with pre-existing medical conditions  such as high blood pressure, heart disease, lung disease, cancer or diabetes  appear to develop serious illness more often than others."
the software is very different. and the capabilities of the machine. the monitoring parameters within ventilators are much more sensitive to pressure and volume than cpap or bipap machines. below are two pages from the manufacturer with setting capabilities for a bipap and a ventilator.  http://www.usa.philips.com/c-p/hh1460 00/dreamstation-cpap-with-humidifier  http://www.usa.philips.com/healthcare/product/hcnoctn96/respironics-v60-non-invasive-ventilator/specifications 
"no.  force majeure does not change contract terms  e.g. making a non-refundable deposit refundable . rather, it allows parties to get away with not performing their obligations where circumstances beyond their control prevent them from doing so.  in your situation, all parties have performed their obligations so far. you paid the required deposit, they welcome you on the 1st of april.  it would therefore be much more likely that they get away with not refunding you a refundable deposit  if there was one  because of covid-19 -- than you get back the non-refundable one. "
"sure. well, we do have a preliminary snapshot of cases in the u.s. from the cdc. and the picture so far is similar to what was documented in china. coronavirus hits oldest people - older people the hardest. the cdc analysis found that about half of the people who have ended up in intensive care are 65 and older  the highest percentage of deaths in the u.s. has been among those 85 and older. now this is based on an analysis of about 500 patients admitted to the hospital in the u.s. - so not all of the cases. but here is something to be aware of - younger adults can be vulnerable too  about 20  of people hospitalized were in their 40s and 50s. and this may come as a surprise - about 20  were younger. so some millennials and gen xers have gotten seriously ill."
"i can give some information about the italian lockdown. source: the faq from the italian ministry of internal affairs.  what you can do   go to work  any kind edit: on march 21, as an additional restriction,  non-essential  businesses were stopped . telecommuting / remote working is recommended when possible. travel for work  for instance, plumbers can go visit their clients . commute between different cities for work reasons. go visit the shops that are still open: food, pharmacy/chemists, newspaper is agents, tobacconists, bars and restaurants on motorways, some grocery and personal item shops, hardware stores, laundries... while doing so, customers must be at a distance of 1 m one from the other. in particular, you can get out to buy newspapers. return to your main residence  wherever you are . go tend to elderly relatives. divorced parents can go visit their children. dispose of trash. walk your dog  edit: in some regions, this was further restricted: one cannot go further than 200m from one is house for this reason , or take it to the vet for urgent matters. go running or practicing  individual  sports  edit: in some regions, this was further restricted: one cannot go further than 200m from one is house for this reason . use a bike for an authorized purpose  e.g., as a sport, or to commute . there is no limitation to the number, length, or frequency of outside trips, as long as they are all for authorized reasons.   what you cannot do   if you have fever or other symptoms it is  strongly recommended  to stay at home. go to a secondary place of residence such as a a holiday home. go for a walk without any other purpose. all kind of gatherings: discos, cinemas, pubs, theaters, etc. are closed. all schools and universities are closed. religious gatherings are suspended  e.g. sunday mass .  non-essential   see above  shops are closed.   what happens to transgressors  police can stop people to check that they are out for a legitimate purpose. transgressors can be arrested  up to 3 months  or fined  up to 206eur , and the violation will enter their criminal record. shops that disobey regulations will be closed for 5 up to 30 days.   numerous violations have already been reported: this newspaper article mentions 46000 violations reported by the authorities and 1500 closed shops in the past week of lockdown.  there have been various appeals from various artists and public figures urging italians to stay at home and respect these measures  see e.g. this youtube search .  comparison with china  i do not have direct experience, but from what i understand measures in china were more severe: for instance this wikipedia article mentions that      in many cities, districts, and counties across mainland china  only one person from each household is permitted to go outside for provisions once every two days, except for medical reasons or to work at shops or pharmacies.   i welcome a similar answer from the point of view of chinese citizens. "
"according to the most recent report by the center for disease control and prevention  cdc , the number of hospitalizations and deaths were greatest among those between 65 - 74. yet 20  of those hospitalized for severe symptoms of covid-19 were between the ages of 20-44 years. "
"yes, there are several  upsides  as you put it.    it is cheaper it is easier to breath in it is sufficient for catching particles smaller than it is actually designed for...   now, that last point is what is important. according to 3m is own documentes on various types of filters and masks, it seem that there is an electrostatic effect between the layers of the filters and the particles hitting it. so:   filter  grid  does not have to be smaller than the particles themselves apparently because of the electrostatic effects, particles are attracted to - and prefer to stick to, the fibers of the filter.    from  2 :    because of the various mechanisms by which particulate filtration occurs, the smallest particles are typically not the most difficult to filter. most particulate filters have a region of lower filtration efficiency somewhere between 0.05-0.5 mm.1 particles in this range are large enough to be less effectively pushed around by diffusion, but small enough to be less effectively captured by interception or impaction. the most penetrating particle size  mpps  will depend on the filter media, air flow, and electrostatic charge on the particle. filters that use electrostatic attraction may have a mpps shifted to a slightly smaller size range.       appendix a  equivalent mask standards  1   n95  united states niosh-42cfr84  ffp2  europe en 149-2001  kn95  china gb2626-2006  p2  australia/new zealand as/nza 1716:2012  korea 1st class  korea kmoel - 2017-64  ds  japan jmhlw-notification 214, 2018    appendix b  classiifcations   2   standard classification filter efficiency niosh 42 cfr 84 n95    95  niosh 42 cfr 84 n99    99  niosh 42 cfr 84 n100    99.97  en 149:2001 ffp1  filtering facepiece     80  en 149:2001 ffp2  filtering facepiece     94  en 149:2001 ffp3  filtering facepiece     99  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p1  elastomeric facepiece     80  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p2  elastomeric facepiece     94  en 143:2000, en 140:1999, en136:1998 p3  elastomeric facepiece     99.95  gb2626-2006 kn/kp90    90  gb2626-2006 kn/kp95    95  gb2626-2006 kn/kp100    99.97    references:   1 comparison-ffp2-kn95-n95-filtering-facepiece-respirator-classes  2  respiratory protection for airborne exposures to biohazards  3  faq  4  mask shelf-life  5  various disposable  6  3m disposable respirators for personal safety  7  surgical n95 vs. standard n95  "
"looking on the fda website, i found this:   notice of declaration under the public readiness and emergency preparedness act for medical countermeasures against covid-19  in brief, it lays out that the secretary of health and human services is offering limited immunity from lawsuits and prosecution -- at his considered discretion -- for medicines and equipment to be used against the covid-19 pandemic. it allows approved equipment and medicines to be used in  off-label  or unapproved ways, and allows drugs that are being researched under  investigative  exemptions, or even drugs or products that the secretary decides could reasonably be on the market within 10 years  meaning drugs that are early in development, and not yet thoroughly tested . the fda is still holding the reigns -- it has the final say in determining that a drug or device is at least marginally safe -- but it is setting aside the exhaustive testing and approval processes it normally requires before allowing general use.  section iv to vi spell out what is and is not covered by this immunity during the crisis, but it seems the standard being used is that the drug or device has a credible purpose in dealing with some aspect of covid-19 and is not grossly or flagrantly irresponsible to use. "
"please be aware that i am not a vet.  to me the wound does not look bad. it is small enough to not require stitches and it does not look inflamed or infected.  my own cat got lost for a long time and came back with a severe case of ear mites, which caused him to scratch himself raw around the ears. even after treatment for the mites, it took several months     for his skin to heal completely.   such superficial wounds tend to scab, which itches and can pull on hairs. our cat often scratched parts of the scab off, which looked very much like the photo of your cat.  i think you do not even need to put a  collar of shame  on him. just keep an eye on the wound and avoid touching it, which might irritate him and cause more scratching. "
" germany has pretty supportive laws in place for people who are personally quarantined, basically paid sick days off. this will have the effect of supporting domestic demand during the crisis. that does not cover the general economic downturn for people who are not directly sick or quarantined, so the government decided on tax deferments and a loan program for businesses. there is also the possibility of payments from the unemployment insurance system for workers who had their working hours reduced, this allows companies to avoid layoffs.  "
your doctor will tell you if you need to get tested.
this is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment may change daily. the latest updates are available on cdc is coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  website.
"no. there are trials underway in china and elsewhere, but because the virus is new, there is no approved treatment for covid-19 and a vaccine is likely more than a year away."
"redundancy is a form of dismissal from employment -- in other words, a permanent end to your employment. this is usually done if an employer needs to downsize, or if the job that you are employed for no longer exists. for example, if a runs a factory and decides to close it, the employees of that factory would likely be redundant. you are generally entitled to redundancy pay in this case.  in the uk, a lay off is asking an employee to stay at home or take unpaid leave when the employer does not have any work to give the employee. this is a temporary situation: your employment does not end, but you may not be paid as there is no work for you to do. a person who is laid off may be entitled to statutory guarantee pay.  a furlough is essentially the same thing as a lay off, although the term has become significantly more popular during the covid-19 pandemic. government guidance states that    if you and your employer both agree, your employer might be able to keep you on the payroll if they are unable to operate or have no work for you to do because of coronavirus  covid-19 . this is known as being  on furlough .   the government furlough scheme, the coronavirus job retention scheme, has brought the term to greater attention, and this offers 80  of an employee is wages while they are under furlough. "
"   if you are listed as a dependent on a tax return, then no. students under age 24 are often dependents in the eyes of the taxing authorities if a parent pays for at least half of their expenses."
"should everyone be wearing masks  everyone need not wear a mask. if you have a cough and cold, you should wear a mask to not transmit the infection to others. if you are a healthcare worker looking after covid-19 patients, then you need to wear a mask. but otherwise, a person who is going out for their day-to-day work, does not need to wear a mask. sometimes it can be harmful too because if you wear a mask you keep adjusting it and touching your face. in case you do end up touching an infected surface and then touch your mask, you might end up infecting yourself. there is no data to substantiate if healthy people benefit from wearing masks."
http://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6    we are tracking the covid-19 spread in real-time on our interactive dashboard with data available for download. we are also modeling the spread of the virus. preliminary study results are discussed on our blog.   this is by the john hopkins university. 
"the covid-19 test can be ordered by a specialist coronavirus clinic, your local gp or a hospital emergency department.  the federal government has announced plans to create up to 100 coronavirus pop-up clinics across the country.  but these testing facilities vary state by state, so it is best to first be in touch with the coronavirus health information hotline on 1800 020 080 for advice.  testing methods may include a blood test, a swab test inside your nose or in the back of your throat, or a sputum test, which examines a mix of saliva and mucus.  remember, you may still need a gp referral before attending new clinics, so be sure to check first."
studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air. see previous answer on  how does covid-19 spread  
"officials suggest  self-quarantining  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/11/coronavirus-pandemic-quarantine-social-distancing-covid-19-defined/5020755002/  for twoweeks if you have had exposure to somebody with the virus and might be infected.it is a way to monitor if symptoms develop and, at the same time, avoid anypossible spread to others. since the incubation period for the virus is up to14 days, you are  cleared  for the virus after two weeks, elliott said.after that, you still  need to practice socialdistancing  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/2020/03/16/social-distancing-coronavirus-isolation-quarantine-pandemic-virus-infection-symptoms/5019940002/ . is it safe to go grocery shopping  helpful tips during the coronaviruspandemic   /in-depth/news/2020/04/03/safe-go-grocery-store-shopping-tips-amid-coronavirus/5103977002/   coronavirus might spread much farther than 6 feet inthe air. cdc says wear a mask in public.   /in-depth/news/2020/04/03/coronavirus-protection-how-masks-might-stop-spread-through-coughs/5086553002/   fact check: did the obama administration depletethe federal stockpile of n95 masks   /story/news/factcheck/2020/04/03/fact-check-did-obama-administration-deplete-n-95-mask-stockpile/5114319002/ "
"yes. all modern methods of contraception are safe to use, including during the covid-19 pandemic. if you have had a baby in the last six months or have a health condition, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or breast cancer - or if you smoke - seek advice from a health care professional to ensure you are using a method of contraception which is suitable and safe for you."
"yes, testing positive means that you have the virus, but it does not mean that you will develop symptoms. some people who have the virus do not have any symptoms at all.    at the same time, testing negative does not necessarily mean that you do not have the virus."
"negotiate with your neighbour  force majeure in english law only exists if it is detailed in the contract. there is no general legal concept like there is in civil law jurisdictions. further, even if there was such a clause, it would need to capture covid-19 within the definition of force majeure either by defining it sufficiently broadly or by naming  pandemics  a one type of force majeure event.  english law has the much narrower doctrine of frustration but that requires that the supervening event becomes impossible, not just more onerous or expensive. it does not apply here.  it is also possible for a contract to have a change of law clause - this would probably apply to covid-19 since the proximate reason for your work stopping is likely a government regulation. however, these are generally worded to allow the payee to recover additional costs of complying with the law, not to reduce the payer is obligations. notwithstanding, i am guessing that your contract does not have one of these either.  in your case you are required to keep paying and the have the scaffold removed before the deadline or you will be in breach and liable for damages. under the terms of your contract, you took the risk of pandemics even if you did not know you were. "
"so there is some overlap. but there are key differences, too. i have spoken to a bunch of allergists about this. and here is one very important distinction - fever is a symptom of covid-19, but it is not a symptom of seasonal allergies. with all of that pollen starting to develop around the country, a lot of people are sneezing and will have a runny nose. these are typical symptoms of seasonal allergies but not necessarily typical of coronavirus. cough is another very important distinction. coughing is usually not a main symptom of seasonal allergies, but it is a key symptom of covid-19, especially a dry cough."
"scientists are working on new technologies to try and develop a vaccine for covid-19.  the world health organisation said the first vaccines targeting the disease could take 18 months to develop, which would mean august, 2021."
"engaging in casual hook-ups is a bad idea at the moment. it is against government guidelines to leave your home for a non-essential reason, to make unnecessary journeys or to meet up with someone who is not living with you. having close physical contact with someone not in your household could spread coronavirus, as there is no way for you to tell whether you or the other person may be carrying it."
"using the cdc-developed diagnostic test, a negative result means that the virus that causes covid-19 was not found in the person is sample. in the early stages of infection, it is possible the virus will not be detected. for covid-19, a negative test result for a sample collected while a person has symptoms likely means that the covid-19 virus is not causing their current illness."
"no one knows. china began taking  draconian measures  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/22/world/asia/china-coronavirus- travel.html  to control the coronavirus in late january, and it was not until  almost two months later  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/world/asia/china- coronavirus-zero-infections.html  that it reported no new local infections. south korea did not lock down cities in the same way, but was extremely fast to test people, trace their contacts and quarantine infected people. and although china and south korea have demonstrated that, with drastic actions, the virus can be brought under control, there is no guarantee it will not resurge as their economies restart. the u.s. has taken a much more piecemeal approach to confronting the virus. to repeat the success of other countries, experts say,  it will take extraordinary coordination and money  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-restrictions- us.html  from the government, and extraordinary trust and cooperation from citizens."
"there will be some flexibility for the assignment s  due around the closing / travel / quarantine times - all you have to do is talk to your professor.  however, you need to do this as soon as possible - if you wait 2 months it may not be accepted as people are making exceptions now. "
"does yoga, pranayam help build immunity against covid-19  there is no evidence that yoga, pranayam, ayurvedic or homoeopathic drugs are effective in treating covid-19. some people argue that since these exercises help build immunity, it can help fight the virus. that may or may not be the case. but as of now, there is no data supporting this as a treatment."
"no. waste produced during the health care or home care of patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection should be disposed of as infectious waste. for more information on disposing of infectious waste, please click here. or visit cdc website here."
"while the data are much too sparse and noisy to give an answer about what is happening to covid-19 is virulence  the technical term for the  deadliness  of an infectious disease , or to forecast what will happen to its virulence in the future, there are indeed theoretical reasons that one might expect the virulence to decline in the future.  there is an entire theoretical literature on the evolution of virulence  e.g. see read 1994, or see wikipedia   robert may and paul ewald are two researchers who contributed seminal ideas. the basic idea is that infectious  organisms   including viruses  may face a tradeoff between their ability to produce lots of infectious particles  e.g. by replicating faster within the host  and the length of time that they can stay in the host before it dies or activates immune defenses sufficiently to end the infection. in this case, some intermediate level of virulence may evolve.  evolution of virulence in ways predicted by the theory has been observed in the real world in such diseases as myxomatosis  a viral disease of rabbits . the theory has also been suggested to apply in hiv and syphilis.  the actual forecast can depend on many details of the biology and epidemiology of a particular organism. if covid-19 happened to have a higher-than-optimal virulence in humans at the time of emergence, we could expect its virulence to decline over time. it could also decline if epidemic control was applied in such as way as to differentially affect more-virulent strains  this has been suggested by tang et al. on the basis of the pattern of mutations in different strains, although their logic has also been criticized on twitter by an expert in genetic epidemiology, and now by a more official rebuttal by mclean et al.  with some back-and-forth discussion between the authors and critics .  this explanation does not include the possibility of host evolution, which is theoretically important but not really relevant to covid-19  mdash  it would only happen over many generations, and only if the epidemic was so severe that it was a significant overall cause of death or failure to reproduce ...     tang et al.  on the origin and continuing evolution of sars-cov-2 , national science review, nwaa036, http://doi.org/10.1093/nsr/nwaa036 . read, andrew f.  the evolution of virulence.  trends in microbiology 2.3  1994 : 73-76.  "
"i think there is a few things you may be misunderstanding about selling a strangle.   first:     a month later, the idea is that one of those options would be worthless and the other one cheaper than the price paid  of course this was not the case with the current market/covid-19    the ideal scenario behind selling a strangle is that both options expire otm, as they were otm when you sold them to begin with  in your example, on february 20th . this would result in you keeping all of the premium you initially received, the  1860.00  not including commissions associated w/ selling these options, which can vary depending on your account, but we will assume no commissions for the sake of the theoretical scenario .   second part:     more specifically, do i have to consider the fact that for every point that an index option goes beyond the strike, i will have to pay/earn  100  if this is the case, i would have to pay an additional 9,200 per contract    , or  110,400   one, spy is not an index and if you wanted to sell options on an index, you could simply sell them on  spx. two, i think you are neglecting the fact that movements in the underlying are not the only factor that affects the value of an option, you also have time, and volatility  in a simplified sense  that affect the value of the option you sold. so you can not simply just use this rule of thumb without taking these into account, unless you are saying you are only concerned with what the price the option is on the day of expiration. in this scenario, then yes you would be only concerned with the difference between the underlying, and the strike price of your option.   so regarding the 319 put that was sold at  1.42 a contract, then on the day of expiration  march 20th  this put would be worth  74.59 a contract, and in your example, this could either get exercised against you  if you let it  and in that case, you would have to buy 100   12   1200 shares of spy at  319.00 which would cost:    319.00   1200    382,800 and then your position is actually currently worth  244.41   1200    293,292 so your loss would be:     293,292 - 382,800     1860    -87,648  recall the  1860 in premium you received initially   or more commonly, you would have to buy back the option to close out the contract  since you sold to open the contract , which would cost:  74.59   100   12    89,508. note that the call would expire otm  worthless  and you do not have to buy it back. but, recall that you initially received  1,860.00 in premium when you sold these two contracts, so your total loss is:  87,648.  "
"yes, some spread might be possible before people show symptoms, according to the cdc. however, people are most contagious when they are most symptomatic."
"concerned.  stay on top of cdc updates and guidance, as well as from state and local health departments. take the time to sit down and plan for what you will do if local transmission of the virus occurs in your city.  even the experts are not completely sure what is going to happen.   it is hard,  said dr. stanley perlman, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the university of iowa, who described receiving a text message from his son asking whether he should stock up on canned goods.   i would be inclined not to,  perlman said.  we know from other cases that it actually tends to make things worse, because people stock up and then we do not have anything.   covid-19 appears to be more fatal than the flu, with some studies pegging covid-19 is fatality rate at around 3.4 , while the flu is fatality rate is less than 1 . still, experts anticipate that covid-19 is mortality rate will fall when more people with mild symptoms are diagnosed with the virus. typically, the sickest people tend to seek health care treatment first. compared to past coronaviruses, such as sars and mers, however, most covid-19 cases are mild.     for most people, it is going to mean no disease or a mild illness,  merson said. unfortunately, that mildness could also explain why covid-19 is spreading more rapidly than highly fatal diseases do. hiv, for example,  was very fatal, but hard to transmit,  he added."
"at the moment, the federal government is doing a lot of warning. the cdc has produced two dozen guidance documents for hospitals, instructions for preparedness and infection control. crucially, they are offering guidance on preserving personal protection equipment -- like masks and gloves -- in a recognition that a widespread outbreak is likely to impact already-low supplies. the trump administration has created a task force to oversee the response, led by health and human services secretary alex azar. but the administration has not named a coordinator to oversee a whole-of-government response, similar to what the obama administration did during the 2014-2015 ebola outbreak in west africa. in other words, there is no one person whose full-time job is to oversee the government is response. president trumpdonald john trumpwapo: trump allegedly asked fauci if officials could let coronavirus  wash over  us kansas supreme court upholds order banning religious services of over 10 people biden wins alaska primary more plans to hold a press conference on wednesday at 6:30 p.m. et alongside members of his coronavirus task force. his administration has requested  2.5 billion in emergency funding, but even republicans have been skeptical that that is enough to handle a widespread outbreak. senate democrats on wednesday said they would seek  8.5 billion in funding. on a state level, hospitals and public health officials are preparing for a growing number of cases. state health directors happen to be in washington this week for an annual meeting, and many spent wednesday walking the halls of congress, lobbying their members to support funding. at home, those officials are working to make sure their hospitals have the capacity they need to handle an outbreak -- enough beds, enough equipment and protective gear, enough laboratory capacity to test samples they take from potentially infected victims, and enough people to run the tests.  we are starting to work with hospitals and ems systems initially to make sure that they have all the capacity that they need,  shah said of maine is preparations.  the public should appreciate that hospitals are used to taking care of sick people. that is what they do.  what are the broader risks, beyond the virus  we have already seen the virus is impact in china, where factories and stores closed for days or weeks and cities have been quarantined to stop its spread. other countries may follow china is lead. frieden said the outbreak is likely to cost at least  100 billion to combat globally -- and maybe ten times as much, if things spiral out of control. but as in other outbreaks, the fallout is going to extend beyond immediate health concerns. when ebola broke out in west africa, more people died from other, treatable diseases -- malaria, cholera, even hiv -- because the health systems shut down. in this case, china is a major source of the generic drugs used in the united states, for everything from hypertension to diabetes. the virus is likely to impact supply chains, making scarce drugs that are completely unrelated to the coronavirus. experts recommend keeping a three-month supply of any prescription drugs you take on hand in case of that disruption.  the chinese manufacturing issue will affect us,  says michael osterholm, who directs the center for infectious disease research and preparedness at the university of minnesota.  we will have a major shortfall between what will be needed and what will be available.  personal protective equipment, like masks and gloves, are already in short supply after a particularly bad flu season. manufacturers are rushing to fill the gaps, but that takes time, and global demand is growing. the department of health and human services said it has a stockpile of about 30 million masks, but says it needs 300 million to protect front-line health care workers. those workers, who treat patients, would be most at risk of contracting the virus  more than 3,000 health care workers have been infected in china already. the broader economic impact is also unknown, though mark zandi, the chief economist at moody is analytics, said in a note to investors wednesday that the odds of a recession in the first half of the year now stand at 40 percent, twice what he predicted a few months ago.  if it is a pandemic, if it does show up in europe and the united states, then that is the prescription for a global and u.s. recession,  he said. the dow jones industrial average and the s p 500 are both off more than 6 percent in the last two days, the worst two-day drop in years. there is a decent chance that major sporting events and public gatherings will be delayed or canceled. a major trade show, the mobile world congress, has already been canceled in barcelona, spain. soccer games have been canceled in italy, and political demonstrations are temporarily banned in seoul, south korea. the organizers of the tokyo olympics, set for later this year, have insisted the games will go on. but a former top international olympic committee official, dick pound, cast doubt on those plans on tuesday, saying the organizers had about a three-month window in which to decide to pull the plug. the last time the olympics were canceled was in 1944, when games scheduled for italy and london were scrapped because of world war ii."
"go home if you can   if you are travelling in your country of residence, go home and self-isolate there. if travel restrictions make this impossible, contact the relevant authorities for advise. usually there are some exemptions for essential travel, and travelling from a potentially crowded hostel to your home may well count as valid travel.  if you are travelling in another country than your country of residence, contact your embassy. many embassies are attempting to repatriate their citizens. chances are your embassy is already working on trying to reach you if they know how to contact you  i received an email from my government already, but i have my home and job here and the situation in my mother country is no better than here, so it makes no sense for me to repatriate .  now is not the time to travel for non-essential purposes. "
"rubella does not generally kill that is why they had those parties lacking a vaccine.  since we are now seeing many icu beds being occupied by victims in their 30s etc, a different patient profile than in china, then it would be like using russian roulette doing what you suggest. "
"first of all, let is emphasise that this remains the actions of a very small minority of people. the media have a general tendency to amplify things. if you look at reporting of events in many places, you sometimes have the impression there is a widespread civil war going on when there are actually only small isolated incidents.  then, you need to distinguish the type of abuse. the first situation is verbal abuse. it is of course not something you want to deal with, but at least there is no physical harm. i would say you should not confront the authors of that abuse  to avoid getting into the physical harm part below . walk away and report it to the police.  if it comes to threats of physical harm, again, try to de-escalate the situation, then report it to the police. you could tell your aggressors that if they touch you they incur the risk of catching said virus  even though it is most probably completely false, but those people are stupid enough , so they should refrain from doing so.  the emergency number is 999 or 112 from a mobile. if you need help, call them. if you need help from bystanders, be direct. do not say  someone please help , designate someone and instruct them to call 999. "
will the hospitals remain open  yes. hospitals will operate normally.
"yes. the virus can also affect your nose and throat, your blood, and maybe your stomach and intestines too. in kids, the virus is most likely to affect your nose and throat."
"not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care. possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing."
"i am sorry, but realistically, you can not.  that being said, if you look at the range of different  fitness  qualities  endurance, power, strength, flexibility, etc , strength is generally the last one to go, and it is also one of the easiest to get back once you have initially built it.  there are some things you can try, there is going to be some carry over from bodyweight exercises to the traditional powerlifts  though obviously not as much as training the lifts . things like dips and pull ups to strengthen the triceps and back. you can do core work because a stronger core is always a good thing. pistol squats, while not the same as a loaded barbell squat, will allow you to keep training your legs.  also, now is the perfect time to address all those little niggles and flexibility issues that you have been ignoring. that tight hip, the knee that aches if you keep it in the same position too long, the shoulder that is a little wonky, everything like that.  fingers crossed, by fixing the little bits and throwing in some bodyweight stuff now, you will be able to come back stronger  figuratively speaking  when you are able to get back to training. "
"the h1b process takes time, luck, qualifications, fees, and skilled form-filling. i suggest avoiding it by never working in the us. you would go on living in spain and only visit the us for short periods.  in practice, you would use the visa waiver program, but b-1 temporary business visitor lists the permitted business activities for a visitor to the us.  short term training should cover getting to know the products. discussing marketing strategy would be consulting with business associates.  translations and marketing can be done from anywhere in the world. calls and e-mails are best done from the correspondents  timezone or close to it, so being in europe would be an advantage. to promptly return a 9 a.m. call from someone in france you would need get up very early in new york.  you would not be allowed to teach your boyfriend and his brother while visiting the us, but you could teach remotely and you could travel with them whenever they are in europe to translate, smooth their way, and teach them the languages. as time goes on you do less talking and translating, until they can do business in europe without you and you can get on with starting your school. "
people can fight stigma by providing social support in situations where you notice this is occurring. stigma affects the emotional or mental health of stigmatized groups and the communities they live in. stopping stigma is important to making communities and community members resilient. see resources on mental health and coping during covid-19. everyone can help stop stigma related to covid-19 by knowing the facts and sharing them with others in your community.
"symptoms include fever, coughing, sore throat, fatigue, and shortness of breath. however, be aware that at this stage if you have a cough or a cold, it is likely that you just have a cough or a cold and not coronavirus. if you have serious symptoms such as difficulty breathing, call 000 for urgent medical help. if you get these symptoms above after being in contact with someone who has been diagnosed with covid-19, seek medical attention. the same goes if you develop symptoms within 14 days of returning home to australia after being overseas."
"will i be stopped if i am in my car and going outside the vicinity of my house to get essential items  no. all essential services like chemist, grocery, vegetable vendors will continue to operate and no one should stop you from going to get essential items."
"are hospitals authorised to stop attendants from entering  talk to your healthcare provider. given the circumstances, it is best to stay away from hospitals."
"in addition to routine approaches to malaria control, there may be a case for special measures in the context of the covid-19 pandemic - such as a temporary return to presumptive malaria treatment, or the use of mass drug administration - which have proved useful in some previous emergencies. presumptive malaria treatment refers to treatment of a suspected malaria case without the benefit of diagnostic confirmation  e.g. through a rapid diagnostic test . this approach is typically reserved for extreme circumstances, such as disease in settings where prompt diagnosis is no longer available.mass drug administration  mda  is a who-recommended approach for rapidly reducing malaria mortality and morbidity during epidemics and in complex emergency settings. through mda, all individuals in a targeted population are given antimalarial medicines - often at repeated intervals - regardless of whether or not they show symptoms of the disease. such special measures should only be adopted after careful consideration of 2 key aims: lowering malaria-related mortality and keeping health workers safe. who is exploring concrete proposals for when and how to activate such measures  guidance will be published in due course."
"there is not a vaccine for any coronavirus, and your question is generally about targeted attentuation, which is a complex area.   the basic building blocks for any vaccine development is virological understanding of the proteins involved in pathogenesis. i will focus on covid-19 as an example here.  the majority of bioinformatics work is based around the spike protein as is wetlab vaccine development. this gene is immediately after the 20 kb of orf1ab, including the rna dependent rna polymerase, its around 3.5 kb but it might be a bit bigger. the spike protein is a major b-cell  antibody  antigenic determinant and the cellular receptor sites are located within it. your bioinformatics could ultimately focus on targeting these specific sites, in particular using antigenic  antibody  prediction algorithms.   first you need some basic biology of spike and hydrophobicity prediction is a good starting point such as tmhmm here and consider the sars spike protein structure for example here. once you have a handle on those structures antigenicity scanning would be a next phase analysis and possibly homology modelling. this is because covid-19 and sars are closely related, but there are key differences. you finally consider the full range of amino acid mutations in current epidemic via ncbi.  at this point you would target a specific vaccine design strategy and have a clearer understanding on the approach you wish to take. good luck  "
"in places where officials have called for workplaces to be shuttered, there are exemptions for  essential  services and businesses. those institutions can remain open for customers and have workers onsite. in the united states there are    http://www.cisa.gov/identifying-critical- infrastructure-during-covid-19  federal guidelines  http://www.cisa.gov/identifying-critical-infrastructure-during- covid-19  for what is considered an essential service, but decisions are often made at the state level. for example, here are some lists of essential services in    http://www.apple.com  new york  http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-issues-guidance- essential-services-under-new-york-state-pause-executive-order ,    http://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-essential- services  massachusetts  http://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-essential- services ,    http://covid19.ca.gov/stay-home-except-for-essential- needs/  california  http://covid19.ca.gov/stay-home-except-for-essential- needs/  and    http://www2.illinois.gov/sites/coronavirus/faq/pages/stay-at- home- faqs.aspx qst7  illinois  http://www2.illinois.gov/sites/coronavirus/faq/pages/stay- at-home-faqs.aspx qst7 . all four states consider pharmacies, gas stations, laundromats and groceries to be essential, and all of them say restaurants can stay open for take-out and delivery orders. typically, essential services also include utilities, telecommunications and transportation providers  animal shelters and veterinary services  manufacturers and distributors of basic goods  and child care for those who work in essential services."
"while this does look like a very nice approach, i would actually argue that there are  almost  no biological datasets, that can be directly used for your algorithm - you can only do a sort of meta analysis using results/predictions based on other datasets.  the reason for this is that the nature of a signed graph requires you to look at effects that can have opposite directions, which in biology pretty much restricts you to regulatory functions . the problem with that is, that is nearly impossible to directly measure regulatory effects. in all cases i am aware of, one has to measure the magnitude of an effect under different conditions and then calculate regulatory interactions based on that data.  this means any set of regulatory interactions you can put out into your network is already based on a given analysis with inherent assumptions and  potentially  biases.   this does not make the approach impossible, but i do think, it is something you need to be aware of, especially if you want to use multiple datasets.  as for actual datasets that would fit well:   transcription factors have already been mentioned in another answer other regulatory effects on transcriptions  promoters / enhancers  may also work, though in this case the  class  of the objects effected  genes/mrna  is different than the effector another type of biological network that might fit are metabolic / enzymatic pathways. for these you could either also look at regulatory interactions  which again may be tricky because both proteins and metabolites can have regulatory effects  or maybe also directly at metabolic flow: in this case nodes in the graph would represent metabolites and edges reactions that produce or consume them. the kegg database has large numbers of metabolic pathways for many different species.      i was trying to think of other things, but presence/absence of a signal probably does not fit and neither does classification into strong/weak signals  i.e. interactions  "
"if college students are at least 17 years old and are claimed as a dependent on their parents  return, their family would not receive any payment amount for them. a college student who filed his or her own return and was not claimed as a dependent on his or her parents  return would qualify for the rebates."
"china has been using antibody testing to see if people had been exposed in their convalescent phase. the usa did not want to do antibody testing and have wanted to recover virus using a pcr test, but pcr will not show historical infection. open source antibody tests have been described but presumably will need to wait for fda/cdc approval   http://www.livescience.com/coronavirus-blood-test-antibodies.html http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.17.20037713v1  .  there is no guarantee that infection with one strain gives protection against other strains, nor that immunity is going to be long lasting.   http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic "
"technically, if public trains and buses  or planes    are not operating, your options are limited.  i you are not part of an essential service, the only valid answer is stay home.   respect the curfew. if you do not you might get arrested or fined and told to go back home.  if you are part of the essential services, you should ask the relevant authorities how would it be possible to travel on that day, and if you can do your travel on saturday instead  for example if you absolutely need to be somewhere on sunday .  for example, if you are a medical doctor and need to go somewhere, there might be private buses/shuttles to move essential personel around the country, and will probably be controlled to make certain no one with signs of the virus gets on board. "
"flattening the curve refers to the rate at which people are getting infected. without intervention, the number of individuals who contract covid-19 rises exponentially, which means it doubles at a constant rate -- in this case, every three days. at such a rate, the number of infected individuals will overwhelm our hospital system, because we simply do not have enough hospital beds and respirators to treat them all. the united states does not even have enough protective equipment at present to protect its own health care workers.   doing the math, if one person is infected with the virus on jan 1, with the number of people infected people doubling every 3 days, then by march 31, over 1 billion people will have become infected. with the world population being around 7.8 billion, it would only take until april 9 for all of us to be infected.  the situation in italy has shown us that, without enough equipment, hospitals will be compelled to turn away some of the most infirmed among us, resulting in increased fatalities.   staying home does not prevent you from contracting the virus down the line, but from contracting the virus and overwhelming the medical establishment now. postponing exposure buys time for the scientific and medical community to develop effective treatments or a vaccine to minimize or protect against infection."
"in an ideal world everyone would have full body ebola type protection. in the world of practicality, the who has advised that this is a droplet, and surface spread infection. however, it is not discounting the possibility of aerosols especially during some medical procedures eg. induced coughing, and then a potentially ill fitting mask and goggles may not be enough even in a negative pressure room.  if the full protection is available people are using it. but there is a shortage of even basic masks in the usa and elsewhere. "
"on march 27, congress  passed a  2 trillion rescue package  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/us/politics/coronavirus-house- voting.html , the largest economic stimulus measure in modern history, to help the people, businesses and industries affected by the coronavirus outbreak. in its sheer scope and size, the aid plan is unprecedented and touches on every facet of american life. its components include stimulus payments to individuals, expanded unemployment coverage that includes the self-employed, student loan changes and much more."
"never give your cat milk cats and all other adult mamals are unable to digest lactose it makes them and many of us ill.  the negative effect of giving milk is most likely stronger than the positive effect of glycosamine and the mineral suplement.  as elmy say in her answer if the vomit is dark it might be internal bleeding so you will need to take your cat to the vet for diagnosing and treatment of this.  giving white fish is a good idea and you can use the juice from the white fish and mix glycosamine and mineral suplement into this,to get the juice out of the white fish you need to do as follows.  use one of your smallest pots add the white fish it is best if it have been frozen add a couple of spoons of water and slowly heat until the water boils,use a fork to split up the fish so it gets heated evenly use little heat you need to keep the water/juice.  you can use a strainer to remove the juice or you can use the fish and juice as it is,cool it down and mix in the glycosamine and minerals hopefully your cat will eat it.  as other mention in the comments giving only white fish over time is not good,and it will lead to lack of essensial nutrients so you need to go back to normal food after two days even if your cat manages to keep the food down. "
"i refer to the american society of anesthesiologists       does the anesthesia machine need to be decontaminated after use on a covid-19 patient  we have hepa filters in the circuit and the gas sampling line.      please refer to asa guidance that states,  after the case, clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces on the anesthesia machine and anesthesia work area with an epa-approved hospital disinfectant.  the internal components of the anesthesia machine and breathing system do not need  terminal cleaning  if breathing circuit filters have been used as directed. please also see guidance from the apsf on decontaminiation.    for further information see the american society of anesthesiologists covid-19 faqs "
"to collect a sample for a diagnostic test for sars-cov-2, the virus that causes the covid-19 disease, doctors typically use the same method of collection as they would for influenza: a nasopharyngeal swab. for this swab, a tiny q-tip on plastic or a wire stem is put up your nose about 3 or 4 inches.     i have had it done, and it is mildly uncomfortable for a few seconds,  said gregory poland, director of the mayo clinic is vaccine research group.    a doctor may also do a throat swab. in some cases, if you have a  wet  cough, a doctor may also have you cough up some phlegm into a collection cup. these specimen are then packed with ice and shipped to a lab for testing.    to determine if someone has recovered from the coronavirus, at least two different nasal swabs taken at least 24 hours apart must test negative, poland said."
"  considering today is assertion that fda has now approved certain pharms, does it follow that these prescriptions are no longer  off-label , but rather are indicated uses    no. the president is not the fda, and the president is statements about fda actions are not fda actions. the only official source of information about drug approvals is the fda is list of approved drugs. see 21 cfr 314.3:    listed drug is a new drug product that has been approved under section 505 c  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act for safety and effectiveness or under section 505 j  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, which has not been withdrawn or suspended under section 505 e  1  through  5  or section 505 j  6  of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, and which has not been withdrawn from sale for what fda has determined are reasons of safety or effectiveness. listed drug status is evidenced by the drug product is identification in the current edition of fda is  approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations   the list  as an approved drug. a drug product is deemed to be a listed drug on the date of approval for the nda or anda for that drug product.  "
"yes, according to the following sources.   http://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-thailand-cases-iduskbn21q0gd:    those foreigners who entered the country before the ban was imposed - who had visas, received visas on arrival or under visa waiver programmes - will not need to line up at often crowded immigration centres around the country to extend their stay.    the automatic visa extension has been granted until april 30, according to an interior ministry document. police lieutenant general sompong chingduang told reuters the government could extend this deadline each month.   http://immigration.go.th/content/visa auto extension  now updated with english version of the image :    unofficial translation of the official  notification of the ministry of interior  on the  permission for certain groups of aliens to remain in the kingdom as a special case  from http://mfa.go.th/main/contents/files/news3-20200410-172909-334229.pdf:     "
"yes, a person could have both. this was the case for one patient in china, according to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention. the 69-year-old man in wuhan had both sars-cov-2 and influenza a virus. doctors initially diagnosed the man with the flu and later diagnosed the coronavirus.  doctors studying the patient said the case  suggests that covid-19 might be underdiagnosed because of false-negative tests for upper respiratory specimens or co-infection with other respiratory viruses. broader viral testing might be needed.   peter hotez, dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine, agrees.   i do not like that people are doing flu tests and saying therefore it is not coronavirus,  hotez said.  traditionally, for flu, we know it is possible to get other co-infectious with other viruses. "
"one can not easily separate ethics from how biology is done, as much as some people have tried.  though i suppose some have made bioethics into a separate and successful media career, so it can be done in that way.   in addition to the comment-answer about the tuskegee study, nazi doctors in germany performed experiments without consent, which included infecting concentration camp prisoners with the bacteria that cause tuberculosis.  your question is about volunteerism, however, and the victims of the united states and nazi germany did not give full -- or any -- consent to experimentation.  in this week is issue of nature, there is a news article which interviews bioethicist nir eyal about a recent preprint, of which he is a primary author.   in this interview and in the preprint, your very question about coronavirus vaccine research, specifically, is discussed, as it concerns the matters of consent, ethics, and safety of doing accelerated biological research about this virus in a time of emergency.  in answer to your first question about modern clinical studies, dr. eyal notes:    are there any precedents for infecting healthy people with a pathogen     we do human-challenge studies for less deadly diseases quite frequently. for example, for influenza, typhoid, cholera and malaria. there are some historical precedents for exposure to very deadly viruses. the thing that demarcates the design that we propose from some of these historical instances is that we feel there is a way to make these trials surprisingly safe.   as an example, there was a challenge trial for malaria performed in 2012. healthy individuals were bitten by mosquitoes carrying the malaria parasite and then treated with antimalarial therapies.   clinical trials are done under the aegis of government agencies with review and approval processes, some of which are described on the fda web site. irbs or institutional review boards provide oversight:    under fda regulations, an irb is an appropriately constituted group that has been formally designated to review and monitor biomedical research involving human subjects. in accordance with fda regulations, an irb has the authority to approve, require modifications in  to secure approval , or disapprove research. this group review serves an important role in the protection of the rights and welfare of human research subjects.  "
"the most common test for covid-19 is an invasive nasal swab inserted all the way back to your nasal pharyngeal region, where the respiratory tract meets the back of your throat, where cells are collected. "
"while some western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of covid-19, there is no evidence that current medicine can prevent or cure the disease. who does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for covid-19. however, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both western and traditional medicines. who will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings are available."
"there is no limit. even if you try to return after the expiration of your i-94, you can just reapply for admission as you did the first time you entered in tn status. "
"this is an interesting question. a recent study published on biorxiv by researchers from xi an, china  pre-print  argues that cd147 can also be an entry receptor for the virus. they showed virus entry can be blocked by an antibody to human cd147. "
"only wear a mask if you are ill with covid-19 symptoms  especially coughing  or looking after someone who may have covid-19. disposable face mask can only be used once. if you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. there is a world-wide shortage of masks, so who urges people to use masks wisely.  who advises rational use of medical masks to avoid unnecessary wastage of precious resources and mis-use of masks.  the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing."
"should i visit a hospital at all  or just quarantine will do  if you experience flu like symptoms, it is best to consult a local doctor. do not head to the hospital straightaway as it can expose you to the infection."
"the no 1 thing you can do to protect yourself from coronavirus infection is to wash your hands, often and thoroughly. you need to rub the soap for 30 seconds to kill all potential virus molecules. washing for 20 seconds will only kill some of them. the who recommends singing happy birthday twice, but that can get pretty tedious, so choose your own favourite ditty -- but make sure it is a long one. use hand sanitiser if you can not get to a wash basin, but make sure it is an alcohol-based sanitiser with at least 60 per cent alcohol content -- the alcohol is required to kill viruses. do not touch your face, wash your hands before you eat, avoid touching hard shiny surfaces in public places such as on public transport, and stay away from sick people. stay home if you are sick. cough or sneeze into your elbow, not your hand, or into a tissue."
"plan for potential changes at your workplace. talk to your employer about their emergency operations plan, including sick-leave policies and telework options. learn how businesses and employers can plan for and respond to covid-19."
when asked state the reason as:   force majeure due to border closure during coronavirus pandemic   this is an often used  and internationaly known  legal term that expresses that the situation was beyond your control.   such an event should not be held against you.  
"from your own data 19  of patients need hospital care. hospital care is usually required when the patient develops significant shortness of breath. shortness of breath implies hypoxemia. hypoxaemia is caused by a disturbance of gas exchange in the lungs. all of these patients have pneumonia with the early ct changes of upper peripheral parts of the lungs showing ground glass opacities which then spread to show more extensive ground glass changes with haloing and areas of consolidation which merge into a whiteout of the lungs.  the chinese cdc report has a slightly different definition    the authors of the chinese cdc report divided the clinical manifestations of the disease by there  sic  severity:    mild disease: non-pneumonia and mild pneumonia  this occurred in 81  of cases.    severe disease: dyspnea, respiratory frequency    30/min, blood oxygen saturation  spo2     93 , pao2/fio2 ratio or p/f  the ratio between the blood pressure of the oxygen  partial pressure of oxygen, pao2  and the percentage of oxygen supplied  fraction of inspired oxygen, fio2    lt  300, and/or lung infiltrates   50  within 24 to 48 hours  this occurred in 14  of cases.    critical disease: respiratory failure, septic shock, and/or multiple organ dysfunction  mod  or failure  mof   this occurred in 5  of cases. 12    the decision to move from high flow oxygen  nasal cannula  to masks and then ventilation  proning  is based on standard protocols for viral pneumonia. ecmo is used when even ventilation is unable to maintain satisfactory oxygen levels.  covid-19 has an odd characteristic of patients with mild hypoxemia suddenly compensating and needing to be rapidly intubated. as a side note, intubating these patients is one of the most risky of procedures for medical personnel as it places them into very close proximity to a very sick patient who is expelling lots of virus.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk554776/ "
"there is a lot of focus on the individual checks, but i am firmly of the mind the small business loan piece of this is far and away the most important given what is happening right now.  the bill directs  350 billion for loans to small businesses and nonprofits with under 500 employees. the loans would be guaranteed by the small business administration but the actual lender would be approved banks and financial institutions, which should get the money out the door faster. businesses could receive up to  10 million in loans to float employee salaries, payroll expenses, mortgage and other debt payments. if used for those purposes, the loans would be forgiven in the future. it is a huge deal if it works properly.  there are several other small business related provisions in here that may be useful and/or valuable to those who are eligible. be sure to check them out to see if you may qualify -- a key component of this package is expanding eligibility for government programs  see: the unemployment insurance expansion/enhancement ."
"as far i know, no. only an open letter has been published so far:  http://corrierefiorentino.corriere.it/firenze/notizie/cronaca/20 marzo 15/dobbiamo-cambiare-rotta-ef23a500-669a-11ea-a40a-86d505f82a96.shtml "
"absolutely. journals are ways of disseminating scientific information, and they do take into account what is of current interest.  more specifically, however: both science and nature do not just publish scientific articles, but also commentary and news stories. for example, in science they are in the  news  and  perspectives  parts of the magazine, and they definitely cover current events. as, if i may add, they should. "
"specific antibodies are typically detected using elisa.  the way you make a test for an antibody to a particular pathogen is not by using secondary antibodies to the specific part of the target antibody, but by using the antigen.  different kits work differently, but the general idea is that you have antigen stuck to a surface, you put the sample on that surface. if there are antibodies to the antigen, they stick to it. then you wash everything away and add a tagged antibody that binds to generic human antibodies.  see also http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/new-blood-tests-antibodies-could-show-true-scale-coronavirus-pandemic "
who guidance remains the same. early diagnosis and treatment are critical to prevent a mild case of malaria from progressing to severe illness or death. countries should not scale back efforts to detect and treat malaria  doing so would seriously undermine the health and well-being of millions of people infected with a potentially life-threatening disease.
"the best theoretical model we have is that the sars and sars-cov-2 viruses knock out the ace2 receptor found on numerous tissues including alveolar cells, and myocytes, and intestinal luminal cells.  if those cells have died then they need to be replaced, and if and until when that happens there will be reduced organ function.  ct scans of recovered patients show some have ground glass changes pointing to extensive damage and scarring which may be irreversible.  http://www.businessinsider.com.au/coronavirus-recovery-damage-lung-function-gasping-air-hong-kong-doctors-2020-3 r us amp ir t  http://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2020/03/biography-new-coronavirus/608338/ "
"   if you lost your job  and with it your health insurance , or even if you never signed up for a policy, you may have options. some states and employers have loosened the rules around when you can sign up for insurance because of the pandemic. there is also the possibility of continuing your job-based coverage under a law known as the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra  applying for medicaid with your state agency  or getting an individual plan at healthcare.gov.  it depends on your circumstances  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/upshot/coronavirus-health- insurance-faq.html  which route makes sense."
there is currently no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with the body of someone who died of covid-19.
"there are lots of things that everyone can do to help limit the spread of the coronavirus. nhs advice says: regularly wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds when you cough or sneeze, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve  not your hands   try to avoid close contact with people who are unwell as dr xand explained, people should stay at home if they are feeling poorly, especially if they have a temperature, a cough, or are feeling achy. the who says keeping at least two metres apart from someone who might be coughing or sneezing will help stop the coronavirus spreading. prime minister boris johnson said people should stay at home to help stop the spread of the virus. he has closed all sorts of places where people gather, such as shops, libraries, cinemas and places of worship, to persuade them to do this."
"with airlines cutting trans-atlantic flights and cruise lines canceling sailings, travel conditions and refund policies are changing daily. keep an eye on social media and official communications from your airline, hotel, cruise or wherever you booked to stay up to date with any changes to refund policies. and expect long wait times if you do need to contact a company."
"trump in march signed  the largest economic stimuluspackage  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/03/27/coronavirus-house-set-pass-stimulus-package-includes-checks/2923953001/  in u.s. history.the  stimulus provides forbearance on mortgagepayments  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2020/03/31/coronavirus-what-happens-if-you-cant-pay-rent-due-pandemic/5099013002/  for up to a year butjust for federally-backed loans. some states and banks are also issuing relieffor other types of mortgages. once forbearance ends, borrowers would have towork out a repayment plan or loan modification with the mortgage servicer, thenational housing law project says.still, several states are granting moratoriums to renters but not owners,potentially forcing owners to pay their mortgage, utilities, taxes and othercosts even though they have less rental income."
"no. the virus that causes covid-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars  in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different.  sars was more deadly but much less infectious than covid-19. there have been no outbreaks of sars anywhere in the world since 2003."
"the identification is done by sequencing virus samples and comparing them to reference genomes of viruses. by doing this, you can analyze how closely related an unknown virus is to the references.   for the ncov this method shows it is 96  identical with a known bat coronavirus  see reference 1 for details .  as viruses accumulate mutations due to errors during replication, this method is also used to generate genetic trees of the virus to analyze how it spreads, map routes of infection and also if the virus has been introduced to humans more than once  reference 2 has a nice overview on this topic .  the problem here is: you need to have some known references for comparision, if you have a completely new virus which has never emerged before, this will not help. for this reason there are projects ongoing which collect samples to identify yet unknown viruses  see reference 3    discovery of a novel coronavirus associated with the recent pneumonia outbreak in humans and its potential bat origin dna sleuths read the coronavirus genome, tracing its origins and looking for dangerous mutations virome analysis for identification of novel mammalian viruses in bats from southeast china  "
"no. the money is not counted as taxable income. it is treated as a fully refundable tax credit against your 2020 taxes, meaning that you get the money even if you do not have any tax liability."
"to get tested for coronavirus, you should first contact your general practitioner  gp  and warn them of your symptoms before arriving at the practice.  your gp or hospital emergency department can order the test kits and, once completed, they are processed in public health laboratories across australia."
"it is not yet known whether weather and temperature affect the spread of covid-19. some other viruses, like those that cause the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months. there is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with covid-19 and investigations are ongoing."
"sounds like science fiction and not much use for treating patients. they talk about shining laser light on the virus to induce the resonant frequency to shatter the virus.  but, covid-19 is a deep tissue infection, and i can not imagine how lasers could possibly get inside the lung, heart and other tissues affected by this virus. "
"more than 191,000 people worldwide have recovered from the virus as ofwednesday, according to  data from johns hopkinsuniversity  http://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html /bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6 .most of the recoveries have been in china, followed by spain, germany, italyand iran.of the more than 203,000 confirmed cases in the u.s., more than 8,000 haverecovered."
"protection measures for everyonestay aware of the latest information on the covid-19 outbreak, available on the who website and through your national and local public health authority. many countries around the world have seen cases of covid-19 and several have seen outbreaks. authorities in china and some other countries have succeeded in slowing or stopping their outbreaks. however, the situation is unpredictable so check regularly for the latest news.you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water.why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing.why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth.why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately.why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority.why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.keep up to date on thelatest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 isspreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older personor have diabetes, heart or lung disease.why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas. protection measures for persons who are in or have recently visited  past 14 days  areas where covid-19 is spreadingfollow the guidanceoutlined above  protectionmeasures for everyone  self-isolate by staying at home if you begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache, low grade fever  37.3 c or above  and slight runny nose, until you recover. if it is essential for you to have someone bring you supplies or to go out, e.g. to buy food, then wear a mask to avoid infecting other people.why  avoiding contact with others and visits to medical facilities will allow these facilities to operate more effectively and help protect you and others from possible covid-19 and other viruses.if you develop fever, coughand difficulty breathing, seek medical advice promptly as this may be dueto a respiratory infection or other serious condition. call in advance andtell your provider of any recenttravel or contact with travelers.why  calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also help to prevent possible spread of covid-19 and other viruses."
"yes, you are still obligated by your contract. in general, the existing states of emergency do not cancel contracts or suspend portions of contracts. in some states, eviction proceedings are on hold, and that is as far as overriding contracts goes.  "
"if you received a refund in 2018 or 2019 via direct deposit to your bank account, and you did not change your bank account when you moved, you should be able to receive your rebate via direct deposit.    tax experts said that they think it would be helpful for the irs to provide guidance for taxpayers who have moved or have new bank accounts since they filed their most recent tax return.    under the bill, the irs has to send a notice to a taxpayer is last known address within 15 days of distributing a payment. the notice should provide information about the payment amount, the method used to make the payment and an irs phone number to report failures to receive the payment."
"proofreading and even light editing for proper language usage and understandability should not be an issue at all. you are not contributing to the actual work, just to its explanation. advisors sometimes do this sort of thing.   i will assume of course that the theses you read are not fundamentally about the language itself. but proofreading a math paper, say, helping the author to find the right english or german or whatever words and phrases for expressibility is ok as long as it does not change the content or the ideas. i am assuming, also, that the advice you would give is non-technical.   however, the best way to do this is to make suggestions to the author about places in the text that need improvement, rather than doing a markup. this aids the author in developing professional language skills and helps assure that you do not cross boundaries.   if you are in the same field then it is easy to go too far, so you need to guard against that.     i should note that some people take a very strict view about such things and would forbid it.  "
"how long does it take for covid-19 symptoms to appear  the incubation period usually takes 2-7 days but can take up to 14 days also. in most cases, after a person is infected, it takes up to 5-7 days for symptoms like cold and cough to appear."
"cdc does not have any evidence to suggest that imported animals or animal products pose a risk for spreading covid-19 in the united states. this is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available. the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention  cdc , the u. s. department of agriculture  usda , and the u.s. fish and wildlife service  fws  play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the importation of live animals and animal products into the united states. cdc regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, usda regulatesexternal iconexternal icon animals and animal products that pose a threat to agriculture  and fws regulatesexternal iconexternal icon importation of endangered species and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of wildlife resources."
"unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. it seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. and it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions particularly hard -- not just those with respiratory diseases."
"italian long distance train tickets work along a completely different system then german train tickets. italian trains have passenger manifests. german trains do not. that is why you cannot find any italian prns in the german system. deutsche bahn does not use pnrs at all  as they do not care the slightest bit about who is on their trains...  you could try if you can find your pnrs on the trenitalia website. but i do not know if you could cancel your tickets there. cancelling tickets you should do via the agent you booked them with.   if you created a login with bahn.de you should be able to see your orders there, and maybe cancel them, and you can otherwise just email them.   but you also may just be out of luck. i had to cancel a trip to germany because of the covid-19 situation, and i am not getting any refunds either. see if your travel insurance will refund them.  "
"the coronavirus relief bill is not yet law, and the irs has yet to provide information about how it plans to implement the provision about the rebates. on the irs is coronavirus landing page, the agency is telling people not to call it right now and to check back for updates at a later point.    tax experts are hoping that the irs issues guidance to clarify issues about eligibility when taxpayers  situations differ in 2018, 2019 and 2020, as well as guidance about which nonfilers now need to submit a tax return in order to receive a payment."
"the unwind depends upon what the central bank did.   if the central bank did a repurchase agreement   repo   or lent against assets for a fixed time, the agreement automatically unwinds at the term of the deal  which is short . they would need to enter into new deals to keep their balance sheet size unchanged. if they bought the asset outright, it will either mature, or the central bank can sell ahead of maturity.   there are no  charging a premium  involved  the cost of the operation is embedded in the lending cost  or purchase/sales price of an asset .  there was a very large debate about unwinding central bank balance sheets in the 2010-2016     period. the fed was eventually able to slowly reduce the size of its balance sheet in the last cycle, and there is no reason to believe that this time is different. there is no sign that an  unwind  was necessary, nor are the effects of unwinding a deep concern. "
"as mentioned by krazer in the comment, she is yuki uchiki. she is finally introduced in episode 10 chewy, melty.  japanese title: hamohamo, michichi.  when kirin eavesdropped on her phone conversation and accidentally fell  and safely landed  on her veranda.  in the anime, episode 10 happened around january  as the next episode happened in february, and the previous episode happened on new year is eve . at this time, yuki was a graduating undergraduate student, while ryou and kirin were preparing for their high school entrance exam in march. according to her wiki page on nicovideo, she is going to work as a librarian at the same high school where ryou and kirin goes to. "
"on desktop browsers one way to block this is using the ublock origin extension. right click after installing it, and select  block element . the element you want to block is:     clarify-box  gt  .ytd-watch-flexy.style-scope   from your screenshot, it seems you are browsing youtube using the chrome web-browser, but with  desktop site  enabled, is that right  if you turn that off it should not be displayed "
"federal health officials are asking americans to stay home as much as possible and cancel any elective surgeries. some local and state governments have implemented stricter rules.    if it is possible to keep your appointment and speak with your provider over the phone or video, you should. however, if you cannot speak with a provider remotely and are able to reschedule your in-person appointment for a later date, you should."
"quarantine means separating a person or group of people who have been exposed to a contagious disease but have not developed illness  symptoms  from others who have not been exposed, in order to prevent the possible spread of that disease. quarantine is usually established for the incubation period of the communicable disease, which is the span of time during which people have developed illness after exposure. for covid-19, the period of quarantine is 14 days from the last date of exposure because the incubation period for this virus is 2 to 14 days. someone who has been released from covid-19 quarantine is not considered a risk for spreading the virus to others because they have not developed illness during the incubation period."
"coronavirus spreads from person to person by droplets from the nose or mouth from coughing or sneezing. people can also catch it by coming into contact with contaminated surfaces or skin. the who says  other people then catch covid-19  coronavirus  by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth . this is why people are being encouraged to regularly wash their hands with soap and to not go too near to people who have it.  it is very unlikely it can be spread through things like packages or food , according to nhs advice."
"symptoms of covid-19 resemble the flu and include fever, cough and shortness of breath, according to the cdc. some people also develop aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea.    while fever is one of the most common symptoms, it is not productive to take your temperature every day, poland said.     that is like taking your blood pressure four times a day for no particular good reason. i would probably not do that unless there is a reason to do it. for example, if you felt feverish, or if you traveled to a high-risk area, or if you had contact with somebody  infected ,  he said."
"there have been a number of reactions from the eu so far - some official, others not so much. i have decided, in the world of twitter diplomacy, to count tweets from ministers and current/former heads of government as official responses for this purpose. responses are in chronological order, culminating with the joint statement by president von der leyen and president michel.  the first response from a current or former head of government came from former finnish prime  amp  foreign minister, alexander stubb who tweeted at 5:18 utc:    any attempt to contain the  coronaoutbreak is welcome, but the  decision of  realdonaldtrump to exclude the uk from a european  travel ban is nothing short of irresponsible. viruses do not recognise  borders. decisions should be based on facts, not politics.   the european council president, charles michel, then tweeted his initial response at 6:12 utc, saying that    following the travel ban  realdonaldtrump announced, we will assess  the situation today.     economic disruption must be avoided.      europe is taking all necessary measures to contain the spread of the  covid19 virus, limit the number of affected people and support research.   former prime minister of romania  amp  current leader of the renew party in the european parliament, dacian ciolos, tweeted that    viruses know no borders or nationalities. nationalism  amp  blame games  are no antidote. this is a global crisis, which requires global  solidarity,  realdonaldtrump . containment measures are needed, but  not arbitrary ones. europe will be your partner, but not your  scapegoat.  covid19   speaking to bbc breakfast, british chancellor rishi sunak said that the uk had no plan to emulate the us travel ban.  i am aware the uk is no longer an eu member, but i feel this response is still relevant.     we have not believed that that is the right thing to do, the evidence  here does not support that.    what we are trying to do is contain the virus while recognising that  it is now likely that it will spread more significantly.   guy verhofstadt, former prime minister of belgium, tweeted at 9:51 utc that:    nationalism is not the answer to  covid19, because viruses do not care  about borders or nationalities. we are all in this together. we need a  european approach to save lives  amp  bold interventions to protect our  economy.   at 10:40 utc, an official joint statement was released by president ursula von der leyen and president charles michel:    the coronavirus is a global crisis, not limited to any continent and  it requires cooperation rather than unilateral action.    the european union disapproves of the fact that the u.s. decision to  improve a travel ban was taken unilaterally and without consultation.    the european union is taking strong action to limit the spread of the  virus.  "
"how fast does it spread   each infected person spreads to two or three others on average, researchers estimate. it spreads more easily than flu but less than measles, tuberculosis or some other respiratory diseases. it is not known if it spreads less easily among children, but fewer of them have been diagnosed with the disease. a study of 1,099 patients in china found that 0.9  of the cases were younger than 15."
"the reason for amending this bill instead of the senate creating a new bill was to fulfil the requirements of article i, section 7, clause 1 of the constitution, also known as the origination or revenue clause, which states that all bills for raising revenue must originate within the house of representatives. note that despite the senate seemingly being able to dictate the content of the bill, the house still has to approve the amendment.  the senate has decided that it is legitimate to fulfil the letter of this clause, if arguably not the spirit, by replacing the entire text of a bill originating in the house with a bill for raising revenue. the constitutionality of this decision has been examined by rebecca m. kysar in her 2013 paper the ishell bill  game: avoidance and the origination clause. in chapter ii, subsection c2, she notes that while the supreme court has never ruled on this, several state courts and lower federal courts have condoned this interpretation.  the original bill is now one and the same as the cares act, and you are correct in saying that it can no longer fill its original purpose, as the original wording has been completely removed and replaced by the senate amendment. "
"this is the formula to figure out if your loan forgiveness under ppp will be reduced. i like the us. chamber of commerce illustration for figuring this out. you take your payroll costs and multiply them by a fraction. the top half of the fraction has the average number of full-time equivalent employees  fte  per month for the eight weeks beginning on loan origination. the bottom half has either the average number of ftes per month from february 15, 2019 to june 30, 2019 or the average number of ftes per month from january 1, 2020 to february 29, 2020. seasonal employers use february 15, 2019 to june 30, 2019."
"edit: this answer is somewhat specific to the context of the covid-19 health crisis and about legal justifications for various exceptional teaching strategies being adopted by many universities all over the world these days. it is not clear if that is what you meant to ask about exactly. if it is not, please clarify.    the covid-19 situation and the way universities are responding to it is an illustration of the adage that  it is easier to ask for forgiveness than for permission . basically the situation is so unprecedented that universities are doing whatever they can to stay operational, and leaving legal questions for later. my guess is that these will all be addressed by governments, legislatures, and regulatory bodies at a later time when the people in charge emerge out of panic mode and have time for dealing with such issues.  at the same time, the question of legality is indeed significant, and people are in fact paying attention. for example, in the us, i have heard that the visas of many foreign students explicitly forbid  online learning . as a result, i have also heard  this is basically gossip and i can not confirm it or cite a reference  that some institutions are referring to their current mode of operation as  remote learning  in a euphemistic attempt to pretend that that is conceptually different from  online learning . silly  perhaps, but that is the kind of advice lawyers are giving apparently. similar fig-leaf, cya-style advice is being given about protecting your zoom class meeting with a password to avoid being accused of compromising your students  privacy. does that mean using zoom is technically legal in the sense of being fully ferpa-compliant  who knows - probably not. but at least we make an effort to minimize whatever legal issues we have time to think about and energy to do something about.  but the short answer is, in the academic context as well as other contexts having to do with civil liberties, restrictions on people is movements and many other aspects of our daily lives that are being disrupted, the law is lagging far behind. people in charge will do whatever they need to do without asking for permission, and ask for forgiveness later if they have to  they probably will not . "
"not unless you are the one who is sick.  the cdc does not currently recommend any healthy person wear a mask and doctors warn fiddling with putting on and taking off a mask could backfire by exposing your hands to your face.   surgical masks fit rather loosely around the face and are not constructed, nor thick enough, to prevent infection,  schaffner said.  while they could have a modest benefit, any protection they provide is likely more psychological than scientific. n-95 masks, which hospitals use, are expensive and are not easy to wear, meaning they are not a practical option for everyday use. as health officials have noted, masks should be reserved for the health care workers, not the general public.  in recent weeks, n-95 masks have grown so scarce that the white house is asking americans who have them, as well as construction companies, to donate them to hospitals, so that health care workers are not forced to treat covid-19 patients without a mask, which puts them at risk for contracting the virus themselves.   the other thing a mask can do is give you a false sense of security, and that is not helpful,  said dr. michael merson, a visiting professor at nyu is school of global public health and a professor at duke university. masks work better at preventing people who are coughing and sneezing from spreading respiratory droplets and infecting others, but  those people who are sick should probably be at home anyway.     "
"most people with disabilities are not inherently at higher risk for becoming infected with or having severe illness from covid-19. some people with physical limitations or other disabilities might be at a higher risk of infection because of their underlying medical condition.  people with certain disabilities might experience higher rates of chronic health conditions that put them at higher risk of serious illness and poorer outcomes from covid-19. adults with disabilities are three times more likely to have heart disease, stroke, diabetes, or cancer than adults without disabilities.  you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed."
"plan and develop innovative strategies to ensure as many eligible people as possible can access information and contraception during this period. increase use of mobile phones and digital technologies to help people make decisions about which contraceptive methods to use, and how they can be accessed. enable health care workers to provide contraceptive information and services as per national guidelines to the full extent possible. this is particularly important where pregnancy poses a high risk to health. expand availability of contraceptive services  including both information and methods  through places other than healthcare facilities, such as pharmacies, drug shops, online platforms and other outlets. this can be with or without prescription depending on national guidelines and contraceptive method. relax restrictions on the number of repeat issues of prescription-only hormonal contraceptives that can be issued. ensure access to emergency post-coital contraception, including consideration of over the counter provision. enable access to contraception for women and girls in the immediate post-partum and post abortion periods when they may access health services."
"i recommend this github project from the johns hopkins university center for systems science and engineering  jhu csse :  http://github.com/cssegisanddata/covid-19  they collect the official numbers from different organizations and ministries from all over the world and update their repository every day. they do not provide information about the age of patients though.  there is a japanese project, however, which provides also some age information: http://covid19japan.com/ but the japanese people seem to be very disciplined and have a very low infection rate at the moment.  update: i found a database with german covid-19 cases including age information: http://npgeo-corona-npgeo-de.hub.arcgis.com/datasets/dd4580c810204019a7b8eb3e0b329dd6 0  from the same company  esri  there are a lot more data sets online also for covid-19. one might have to search for age information, though. http://coronavirus-resources.esri.com/ "
"you might wonder whether an increased infection rate during a short period could be observed in the figures of reports on infected cases or the death rate.  however, this is not feasible with the data available   the effect get is diluted the effect is likely to be very small in the observations  unless the infection rate is very large .    if there is an increase in transmission then this will occur only in a small group, which gets diluted by the larger total number of zagreb and the surroundings.  also the time of the event is only very short and the contact between people is very local. social distancing is nothe way to go , but it matters with which persons and how long you have contact.   complete strangers in a supermarket are much more a risk than your neighbors  if your neighbors got the virus than you are already at high risk to get the virus as well, being outside is not gonna change this a lot . there is a large multitude of ways how the virus can spread. if we are traveling a lot, moving around over long distances, then the virus is moving a large distance quickly and will infect a lot of people quickly. the local transmission is of less concern  in terms of speed of transmission, and flattening the curve, the local transmission is eventually determining how many people get sick. the long range transmission is determining how fast people get sick  .  ad hoc ergo propter hoc even if there is a change in the trend/growth in the number of infections or the number of death cases, then it will be very difficult to connect this observation to a specific event. there are too many variables that are changing such that it is not possible to draw strong conclusions about causal relationships based on correlations.  the current cases in zagreb and croatia are very small. so the number will be expected to rise, already without an earthquake. this rise will occur with lots of uncertainty  . the information and background information is so noisy that it is not possible to make a lot of sensible predictions.  see the past reports on the cases below. the curve is not a nice straight line and is varying in growth rate and bumpy. it is very difficult to make a specific relation between specific events and this curve. that is because the time between infection, start of symptoms, and start of registration/confirmation occurs with an unknown delay.   time delay also, there is a delay in reporting of the numbers. this makes the above effects count stronger. it will take two weeks before the effect of increased transmission is measurable. but at that time many more events have happened which may cause an effect as well. and also the time delay is a random value. what happens now in a single day, will not create a sudden peak of a single day two weeks later, but instead it gets spread out over multiple days and becomes less noticeable  and then there are also large high noise levels in the measurements which might be a fourth point .  denominator. furthermore, there is always a few weeks of delay in death registration and reporting. hence, the euromomo mortality figures for the most recent weeks must be interpreted with some caution.      a simple model that shows how the reduction in the long-range transmission is having a strong effect and going on the streets and have local community spread is slightly less worrisome. i used the code from this answer which made used of a  r 0  for short distance transmission and a  r 1  for long distance transmission. i did two computations, one with  r 1   0.25 , r 0   2.25  and one with one with  r 1   0 , r 0   2.5 . the total reproduction rate,  2.5 , is the same, but the models deviate quickly once the infection reaches the edges of the neighborhood.    in the netherlands the officials were counting on a very specific rise of cases in the intensive care. now... they are surprised that it did not turn out to be that specific number and it is a larger number than predicted  they were expecting 1600 people in the intensive care at some date, and not this is gonna happen a week earlier than expected   me... i am surprised that they are surprised about the number turning out to be different. these sort of predictions should have been made with a very wide confidence interval indicating that there is very little certainty about the forecasts. "
"all pregnant women, including those with confirmed or suspected covid-19 infections, have the right to high quality care before, during and after childbirth. this includes antenatal, newborn, postnatal, intrapartum and mental health care.a safe and positive childbirth experience includes:being treated with respect and dignity having a companion of choice present during delivery clear communication by maternity staff appropriate pain relief strategies:mobility in labour where possible, and birth position of choice.if covid-19 is suspected or confirmed, health workers should take all appropriate precautions to reduce risks of infection to themselves and others, including hand hygiene, and appropriate use of protective clothing like gloves, gown and medical mask."
"malaria-endemic countries in all who regions have reported cases of covid-19. in the who african region, which carries more than 90  of the global malaria burden, 37 countries had reported cases of the disease as of 25 march  of these, 10 countries reported local transmission of the disease. the latest situation reports on the covid-19 pandemic are available on the who website."
"the small italian town of vo has tested and retested its entire population.    through testing and retesting of all 3,300 inhabitants of the town of vo, near venice, regardless of whether they were exhibiting symptoms, and rigorous quarantining of their contacts once infection was confirmed, health authorities have been able to completely stop the spread of the illness there.     ...     the first testing round, carried out on the town is entire population in late february, found 3 per cent of the population infected, though half of the carriers had no symptoms. after isolating all those infected, the second testing round about 10 days later showed the infection rate had dropped to 0.3 per cent.     aggressive testing helps italian town cut new coronavirus cases to zero , financial times, 2020-03-17  "
"there are three possibilities when someone is coughing on the bus:   they do not have coronavirus -- or even a virus at all. i coughed a lot when my lungs were full of tumours. some people cough when their asthma is acting up. this is by far the most common case. they do have coronavirus and are not wearing a mask. you are more than 2 metres away from them. this is most of the bus, even in the unlikely event that someone on the bus is infected.  they do have coronavirus, are not wearing a mask, and are less than 2 metres from you. droplets may already have landed on you. getting off will not stop that.   while on the bus, do not touch your face. when you get off the bus, sanitize your hands or wash them with soap and water if you can. now it no longer matters whether droplets landed on you.  notice that the cdc advice does not say  if you find yourself near someone coughing, get away from them as soon as you can.  doing so is either unnecessary  first two bullets  or will not help  last bullet - it is too late, but handwashing will save you anyway.  "
"1  your equation number 5 should be     hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta    hat y   t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots    instead of     hat y  t  theta   varphi t  theta   y  t-1   qquad  text for   , , t 0, 1, 2, dots    2  also you compute the derivative   varphi  based on the matrix that contains values of  s, i ,r, d  that are the observed values, but   varphi  should relate to the modeled values.    3  i am not sure whether you can continue your attempt to solve this analytically after correcting those mistakes. it looks a bit like how people solve equations with the finite element method and potentially you could solve it in that way as well  but it will be an approximation in terms of polynomial functions, and is not exact .   another way to solve it is to put the equations as a function, and have some solver optimize it  you can have the solver estimate the gradient . you can read about that here: fitting sir model with 2019-ncov data doesn  39 t conververge  in addition: you can recast the equations into a single differential equation. for the sir model this is demonstrated here:  tiberiu harko, francisco s. n. lobo, m. k. mak exact analytical solutions of the susceptible-infected-recovered  sir  epidemic model and of the sir model with equal death and birth rates arxiv:1403.2160  q-bio.pe   the sird model is almost analogous. it is nearly the same model, with only the r split up in two. so you can use this differential equation to make initial estimates of parameters.     also  fitting this kind of data to some model might be a bad idea. the sir type of models are some sort of logistic growth type models where the growth starts approximately exponentially but eventually the growth rate decreases. it is due to such terms like  di/dt   i    factor   where the factor is decreasing as  i   and  r  and  d   grow  in the case of logistic growth the factor is  1-i , for the sird model it a bit more sophisticated but not much different .  however, in the case of the corona epidemic, you get a decrease in the growth rate for a multitude of reasons.   weather changes   r 0  is not a constant  spatial distribution  this virus spreads in from place to place, and should not be considered with compartmental models that assume homogeneous mixing  a person in milan is much more likely to infect their family, neighbors, co-workers than a random person in the rest of lombardy  stochastic time effects. the article that you refer to tries to bring autocorrelation into the mixture, but you also have some stochastic behavior, people are not gonna get sick exactly at the same time. some people will get sick earlier than others and this will be according to some function that increases in time and that will make an increase of cases or deaths that might appear as an exponential growth that relates to a transmission model, but it might be not.  sampling bias. we can also see rapid increase in the sampling due to biassed sampling. definitions of the disease are changing  this gave a rapid bump in the curve for chinese , tests might be limited  several countries are limiting their testing which might give false ideas of reduction in the growth of the cases , positive reinforcement  once people have discovered the disease suddenly many other cases might become assigned to the same cause, and this may potentially occur inaccurate because a single cause of death is not always possible to assign   the last to points sampling bias and stochastic time behavior might have occured in the outbreak of sars  2003  in amoy gardens where hundreds of people got sick in a very short time frame. instead of fitting a model to it, one could also assume that all these hundreds of cases were infected by a single person  and that might be a more likely scenario . possibly such a situation may have occurred in italy as well, an initial heavy seeding by unnoticed cases that is now spreading with some time effect and causes the initial exponential decrease  currently the growth looks more like a quadratic curve . last but not least, people respond to the virus which may cause it is spread to increase/decrease. currently heavy measures have been taken and this restricts to a large extend the ability of the virus to spread. you can not model this with a model that has parameters that are constant in time  well, you can, but the outcome will be meaningless    the logistic sir type models will interpret all those reasons for a reduction in the growth rate as a reproduction rate very close to 1 or a low population parameter  you fixed it at the size of the population under study, but this is arbitrary, and also not everybody is gonna be susceptible, possibly many people might have some sort of immunity and get little infected, e.g. a hoskin is effect or some other effect might make only/mostly the elderly population susceptible .  this makes the seemingly mechanistic model, meaningless regarding the parameters. the outcome will be unrealistic. "
"cdc is covid-19 case numbers include many publicly reported numbers, including information from state, local, territorial, international and external partners."
"yes, but kids rarely have severe symptoms.  reports from china include children who have contracted covid-19, but those children typically had very mild symptoms and the majority of cases were diagnosed in adults. severe complications from coronavirus, like acute respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock, are rare among kids. similar to adults, children with underlying health problems may be at increased risk risk for complications associated with covid-19. "
"if you do not expect to need the money for the next 30  years, the best thing you can do is invest in the stock market.   the return on investment for cds is abysmal. they are only a good choice if you need absolute certainty that your investment will not lose value  or, will not lose value too quickly after adjusting for inflation . real estate is risky, particularly on the small scale. a single stroke of bad luck can wipe out your entire investment. the stock market is also risky, but unlike with real estate, you have got enough money to mitigate that risk by spreading your investment  eg. with a mutual fund, an index fund, or simply buying a wide variety of stocks . expect your investment to lose value in the near future -- the market is way down, but i do not think it is quite hit bottom yet, and long-term fallout from the covid-19 pandemic will keep things unsettled for a year or more.  "
"who has produced guidance and also a training course on how to plan for a mass gathering. the guidance and the course both look at how to conduct a risk assessment, plan for and manage health risks in partnership with the local authorities: http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/technical-guidance/points-of-entry-and-mass-gatherings you can find advice to give individual participants on how to protect themselves and their loved ones from covid-19 at: http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public"
"the full communication can be found here in english: http://ec.europa.eu/transport/sites/transport/files/legislation/c20201830 en.pdf  the parts i think will be of most interest to the most people are those concerning cancellations by the airline, cancellations by the passengers themselves and compensation for delays and cancellations.  flight cancellations by airline  in the case of a flight cancellation by the airlines  no matter what the cause is , article 5 obliges the operating air carrier to offer the passengers the choice among:  a  reimbursement  refund    b  re-routing at the earliest opportunity, or  c  re-routing at a later date at the passenger is convenience.  the guidance also makes very clear that if an airline offers a voucher instead of the choice between refund or re-routing, this does not affect the passenger is right to opt for a refund.  flight cancellation by passenger  in cases where a passenger cannot or no longer wants to travel, whether or not the passenger is refunded or re-routed depends on the ticket type as specified by the airline is terms and conditions.  right to 261/2004 compensation  in short...a passenger is not entitled to eu261 compensation for to delays or cancellations related to the pandemic. the airline still has a duty of care to their passengers who are travelling, which you can read more about.  "
"the c.d.c. has guidelines about laundry. it says do not shake dirty laundry, to minimize the possibility of dispersing the virus through the air. if possible, wash items using the warmest water setting, and dry thoroughly. dirty laundry that has been in contact with an ill person can be washed with other people is items, the c.d.c. said. clean and disinfect hampers or other carts for transporting laundry, according to the guidelines for cleaning surfaces. the need for physical distancing has prompted some laundromats to dismantle their seating areas, according to planet laundry, the magazine of the coin laundry association. some laundromats are asking people to stay in their cars during their wash and dry cycles, and some have removed chairs and tables to discourage people from mingling. commercial-grade washers and dryers operate at higher temperatures and with more rigorous mechanical action that, when combined with hot water and proper detergent use, can effectively flush contaminants from clothing better than residential machines, says the association, which represents 30,000 small businesses."
"when is the virus most contagious  the average time from exposure to developing symptoms is five to six days, but can be up to two weeks. tests have found high amounts of virus in the throats and noses of people a couple days before they show symptoms. signs of virus also have been found in stool weeks after patients recover, but that does not mean it is capable of causing illness, scientists warn.  the virus can be degraded,  said robert webster, a st. jude children is research center virus expert.  it is not necessarily infectious virus at all. "
"you should read the whole article:   things you should never microwave ...  - clothing and other large fabric items   the problem with microwaves is that they are not heating any item put inside them homogeneously but create  hot spots  instead. the image shows a simulation of the electric field inside a microwave oven  taken from wikipedia . therefore, microwave oven have a turning table and still it is advisable to stir your food in between of the heating process.  a paper or cloth, however, could catch fire     the better idea to clean cloth is obviously a washing machine. those usually have also a program to wash at 60degc / 140degfahrenheit, which should be sufficient, or even higher. this will not only kill most germs  denaturation of many proteins or nucleic acids starts already below 50degc  but also wash away contamination. "
the best way to avoid catching coronavirus from touching a contaminated surface is to wash your hands properly and avoid touching your face.  you should also wash your hands:  after you use the bathroom  after you cough or sneeze  after taking public transport  before eating and preparing food  after touching animals  when caring for someone who is sick
"there are restrictions in place, but afaik no current restrictions for indian citizens/residents applying for dutch visa. on the other hand, the czech republic closed their visa processing centers in china and hong kong several weeks ago, effectively preventing residents of china from applying for a czech visa. it is at the moment difficult to predict what happens tomorrow or in the next days, but it is of course not impossible, that more schengen countries will follow and impose restrictions on visa issuance.  independent of the visa, it may also by mid-april be impossible to travel to the netherlands. several schengen countries have today or in the past few days established very strict travel regulations or bans, effectively preventing many or most tourists and visitors from entering. "
i found the video: http://www.nicovideo.jp/watch/sm2931268  the tags i was looking for are: tsutsukomikaruta and animekarutarinku 
" it is not the main mode of transmission. there is probably some component ofairborne, but i do not think secondhand smoke would be a compounding factor, said tania elliott, clinical instructor of infectious diseases at nyu langone.if the smoke irritates your lungs and causes you to cough, that poses agreater risk of transmission since the virus is thought to mainly spreadthrough respiratory droplets when someone coughs or sneezes, elliot said.smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to covid-19 as the act of smokingmeans that fingers and possibly dirty cigarettes are in contact with lips, according to the who  http://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/q-a-on-smoking-and-covid-19 . smokers may also already have lung disease or reducedlung capacity which would greatly increase risk of serious illness, the whosays.while data is still evolving about how long the virus may remain alive,  arecent study  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/18/heres-how-long-coronavirus-can-live-surfaces-and-air-study/2863287001/  found thatviable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air."
"at the scale of one person, you could do the following. if you find a paper that you think merits translation, contact the authors and offer your services directly to them. they might not be able to help much if their research is ongoing, but would, i think, respond positively. you could also suggest appropriate english language journals to them that might publish the translations. i can not predict how that would work, but archives might be appropriate.   i think that a lot of researchers in china  as everywhere  have a working knowledge of english and so could probably vet any translations you do for accuracy.   as for the etiquette, just ask, introducing yourself. or even send along a sample translation of a part of a paper as a calling card.   i do not think that copyright can be ignored unless governments intervene to change the rules. it might happen due to the seriousness of the issue.   but being in contact with researchers who have been with this since the beginning might actually be an advantage to your career also.  "
"the department of labor has a nifty q amp a page  questions 2 and 3 in particular . in short, private sector corporations are considered as a single employer and thus count each employee within the company. if the employee count is greater than 500 the corporation in question is exempt from paid leave due to covid-19  for what kind of coverage a smaller company can expect, this fact sheet also provided by dol states that:    generally, the act provides that employees of covered employers are eligible for:      two weeks  up to 80 hours  of paid sick leave at the employee is regular rate of pay where the employee is unable to work because the employee is quarantined  pursuant to federal, state, or local government order or advice of a health care provider , and/or experiencing covid-19 symptoms and seeking a medical diagnosis  or  two weeks  up to 80 hours  of paid sick leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay because the employee is unable to work because of a bona fide need to care for an individual subject to quarantine  pursuant to federal, state, or local government order or advice of a health care provider , or to care for a child  under 18 years of age  whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19, and/or the employee is experiencing a substantially similar condition as specified by the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with the secretaries of the treasury and labor  and  up to an additional 10 weeks of paid expanded family and medical leave at two-thirds the employee is regular rate of pay where an employee, who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days, is unable to work due to a bona fide need for leave to care for a child whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to covid-19.     to summarize, paid leave applies if the private sector employee shows symptoms of covid-19, is told to self-quarantine by health care provider, is quarantined by federal/state/local order, or if employee is taking care of a family member that qualifies for one of the above reasons or if employee is child ren  is stuck at home due to school/daycare closures related to covid-19.  federal employees are still covered by title ii of the family and medical leave act, which was not amended by the families first coronavirus response act. "
"the reason for sweden is rather hands-off approach compared to other european countries was summed up rather well by lead epidemiologist of the public health agency of sweden, anders tegnell, who said in an interview with cnbc:    my view is that basically all european countries are trying to do the  same thing -- we are trying to slow down the spread as much as possible  to keep healthcare and society working ... and we have shown some  different methods to slow down the spread,  ...  sweden has gone  mostly for voluntary measures because that is how we are used to  working, and we have a long tradition that it works rather well.   this tradition of  laissez-faire-ism  that tegnell talks about was explored by johan norberg in his 2013 essay how laissez-faire made sweden rich. this is quite long but well worth a read. notably, norberg argues that rather than sweden is economic and social successes being a result of the sap  managing to tax, spend, and regulate sweden into a more equitable distribution of wealth--without hurting its productive capacity , sweden is greatest successes both economically and socially  took place when sweden had a laissez-faire economy .  sweden is approach to the current pandemic, then, would seem to be influenced by the political traditions of its past. i should note that although tegnell is hopeful that the current strategy will be successful, he does not rule out the implementation of more stringent measures should the data suggest that the laissez-faire tactics are not working.  as far as social factors that have influenced sweden is response go, one such factor is how sparsely spread its population is. this article from our world in data notes how sweden consistently ranks near the top of metrics related to single-occupant households, and the country also ranks 50th out of 54th for population density amongst other european countries.  it is likely that another factor has been the reluctance of the government to negatively affect the economy more than is required. for example, although taking a hands-off approach with regard to restricting personal liberties, it has taken a far more active role in ensuring the continued functioning of business, and on march 27th announced that it will guarantee 70  of bank loans provided to companies that are experiencing financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic.  in conclusion, sweden is response so far seems to be a combination of the reluctance of swedes to accept restrictions on personal liberty - note the outcry by opposition parties when a proposal to rule by decree was announced, a tradition of past laissez-faire approaches, and distinct social factors that will potentially help provide a natural defence against the virus. "
"the problem appears to be that the sars-cov-2 virus binds to the ace2 receptor and carries the receptor into the cell where the rna of the virus is then released. because the cell now lacks ace2 surface receptors this leads to intracellular damage due to lack of inhibition of at1-r in the renin angiotensin system.   the cells that are damaged in the lung are deep alveolar cells that make surfactant and this collapses the alveoli causing acute respiratory distress syndrome. interestingly lung infiltrates are seen early in the disease hence the use in china of ct chest scans for screening before rapid pcr became available. ace2 are also found widely throughout the heart and gut the latter where it assists enzymes that are transporting amino acids. the ace2 receptor bearing cells are found in cardiac tissue, lung, gut, macrophages etc and the main clinical effect of their loss of function is to cause cardiopulmonary damage.  if you were to create a drug that targeted the ace2 receptor then you would be replicating the deleterious effect of the virus which inter alia blocks the protective effect of ace2 on pulmonary and renal damage.  there is been some experimental work showing that a fully humanised soluble ace2 receptor can bind to the virus and blocks entry into the ace2 bearing cells. it works like a neutralising antibody to the virus.   this treatment is currently awaiting chinese fda approval for clinical trials.  josef penninger  http://youtu.be/jaw6vbwtiaa "
"a funeral or visitation service can be held for a person who has died of covid-19. funeral home workers should follow their routine infection prevention and control precautions when handling a decedent who died of covid-19. if it is necessary to transfer a body to a bag, follow standard precautions, including additional personal protective equipment  ppe  if splashing of fluids is expected. for transporting a body after the body has been bagged, disinfect the outside of the bag with a product with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. follow the manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time, etc. . wear disposable nitrile gloves when handling the body bag. embalming can be conducted. during embalming, follow standard precautions including the use of additional ppe if splashing is expected  e.g. disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and n95 respirator . wear appropriate respiratory protection if any procedures will generate aerosols or if required for chemicals used in accordance with the manufacturer is label. wear heavy-duty gloves over nitrile disposable gloves if there is a risk of cuts, puncture wounds, or other injuries that break the skin. additional information on how to safely conduct aerosol-generating procedures is in the cdc is postmortem guidance. cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer is instructions. products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon are expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. follow the manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time . after cleaning and removal of ppe, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol if soap and water is not available. soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled. decedents with covid-19 can be buried or cremated, but check for any additional state and local requirements that may dictate the handling and disposition of the remains of individuals who have died of certain infectious diseases."
"notation. let   pi   p  text disease    be the prevalence of the disease in the population and   tau   p  text pos test    be the proportion testing positive. for the test, let   eta   p  text pos   text disease    be the sensitivity and   theta   p  text neg   text no disease    be its specificity. also, given test results, let    gamma   p  text disease    text pos    and    delta   p  text no disease    text neg    be, respectively, the predictive powers of a positive or negative test.  if a test is of gold standard quality with   eta    theta   1,  then   pi    tau.  tests that accurately sequence the genome of the virus may be gold standard tests. often the first tests for a virus may have considerably lower values of   eta  and   theta.  it is difficult to find accounts of values of   eta  and   theta  for any of the tests in current use for covid-19.  according to one unauthorized report, a test used in china had   theta  approx 0.7.    traditional estimate. first, we look at results for tests with   eta    theta   0.95.  then for data with  n  11 ,500  a   1206,  we have   hat  tau   t   0.1049.  the associated 95  wald confidence interval for   tau  is   0.0993, 0.1105   from which one can derive the confidence interval   0.0547, 0.0672   for   pi.  also,   pi   0.061  implies that the predictive power of a positive test is   gamma   0.5523.  only about half of the subjects testing positive are actually infected. some computations in r follow:  eta   theta   .95 n   11500  a   1206  p0m   -1:1  t   a/n wald.tau   t  p0m 1.96 sqrt t  1-t /n   wald.tau  1  0.09926973 0.10486957 0.11046940 ci.pi    wald.t   theta - 1 / eta   theta - 1   ci.pi  1  0.05474415 0.06096618 0.06718822 pi    t   theta -1 / eta   theta -1   pi  1  0.06096618 gamma   pi eta/ pi eta    1-pi   1-theta    gamma  1  0.5522849   when the traditional estimate is problematic. for a poorer test with   eta    theta   0.90,  this method gives a ci for   pi   as   -0.0009, 0.0131 ,  which has a  nonsensical  negative left endpoint.  we would expect about 1150 false positive tests even with no infected subjects. this is getting close to the the observed number 1206 of positive tests.  in such circumstances, one wonders whether to trust the point estimates   hat  pi   0.0061  and   hat  gamma   0.0522.   eta   theta   .9 n   11500  a   1206  p0m   -1:1  t   a/n wald.tau   t  p0m 1.96 sqrt t  1-t /n   wald.tau  1  0.09926973 0.10486957 0.11046940  ci.pi    wald.t   theta - 1 / eta   theta - 1   ci.pi  1  -0.0009128343 0.0060869565 0.0130867473 pi    t   theta -1 / eta   theta -1   pi  1  0.006086957 gamma   pi eta/ pi eta    1-pi   1-theta    gamma  1  0.05223881   a gibbs sampler. one useful alternative approach is to assume a beta prior distribution on prevalence   pi  sim  mathsf beta  alpha,  beta  .  even if noninformative with   alpha    beta   0.5,  such a prior distribution excludes value of   pi  outside   0,1 .  then we use a gibbs sampler to find the posterior distribution of   pi,  given our data  n   11 ,500, a   1206.  its steps, within each iteration, are as follows:   we begin with an arbitrary value of   pi 1  in  0,1   and use it to estimate  latent  counts of subjects with the disease based on predictive values   gamma  and   delta.  we sample counts  x  sim  mathsf binom  a,  gamma   and  y  sim  mathsf binom  n-a, 1 -  delta .  then with the estimated  s   x y  infected subjects, we update the beta prior at this step as   pi s  sim  mathsf beta   alpha   s,  beta   n - s .  finally, we sample   pi 2  from this updated distribution. even with arbitrary   pi 1,  this new value   pi 2  is likely to be closer to the truth.   simulated posterior distribution. iterating through many such steps we get successive values   pi 1,  pi 2,  pi 3,  dots ,  in a convergent markov chain, for which the limiting distribution is the desired posterior distribution of the prevalence. to make sure that the chain has reached steady state, we use only the last half of the many values   pi i  generated in this way.   cutting 2.5  of the probability from each tail of the simulated posterior distribution, we can obtain a 95  bayesian probability estimate for prevalence   pi.   set.seed 1020  m   10 5   iterations pi   gamma   gamma   numeric m    vectors for results pi 1    .5   initial value alpha   .5  beta   .5   parameters of beta prior eta   .9  theta   .9   sensitivity  specificity n   11500  a   1206  b   n - a   data for  i in 2:m      num.x   pi i-1  eta  den.x   num.x    1-pi i-1    1 - theta   gamma i    num.x/den.x  x   rbinom 1, a, num.x/den.x    use est of gamma as probability  num.y   pi i-1   1 - eta   den.y   num.y    1-pi i-1   theta  y   rbinom 1, b, num.y/den.y    use 1 - est of delta as probability  pi i    rbeta 1, x   y   alpha, n - x - y   beta    aft.brn   seq floor m/2 ,m  quantile pi aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   3.329477e-05 1.225794e-02  quantile pi aft.brn , .95   95   0.01101075  mean pi aft.brn    1  0.0049096  quantile gamma aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   0.0002995732 0.1004690791  mean gamma aft.brn    1  0.04176755 quantile gamma aft.brn , c .025, .975    2.5  97.5   0.0002995732 0.1004690791    because the two-sided bayesian probability interval   .00003, .0123   has its lower endpoint so near to 0, we also look at the one-sided interval   0, .0110   for   pi.    because we estimate the predictive power   gamma  of a positive test at each step of the chain, we capture its values in order to get a 95   bayesian probability interval   0.0003, 0.1005   for the predictive power   gamma  of a positive test. if we were to sequester subjects that get a positive result with this test, then only a relatively small proportion of sequestered subjects would actually be infected.  diagnostic plots. not all gibbs samplers converge as anticipated. diagnostic plots show that this one does.    a plot of successive values of   pi  shows the nature of the convergence of the markov chain. the history plot of   pi  shows that the chain amixes well   that is, it moves freely among appropriate values. there are no points of near-absorption.  the trace of running averages of the   pi i  shows smooth convergence to prevalence 0.0049. vertical blue lines indicate the burn-in period. the acf plot shows that the   pi i  are not independent. among the  m   100 ,000  values, perhaps there are 1000 independent ones. in many gibbs samplers, markov dependence  wears away  more rapidly than here.  the plot at lower-right is a history plot of the   gamma i.       variations. if we run the same program with   eta    theta   .95,  results are nearly the same as for the traditional procedure. if we have useful prior information  or opinions  about the prevalence, we can incorporate that information into the prior distribution on   pi.   references:  1  suess, gardner,  amp  johnson  2002 ,  hierarchical bayesian model for prevalence inferences and determination of a country is status for an animal pathogen  preventive veterinary medicine, and its references.  2  suess  amp  trumbo  2010  probability simulation and gibbs sampling,  sect. 9.1 , springer. "
"yes, it is safe to eat takeout.  there is no evidence to suggest coronavirus is transmitted through food, the cdc says. it is mainly spread through respiratory droplets.  even if coronavirus does get into your food, your stomach acid would kill it, said dr. angela rasmussen, a virologist at columbia university.   when you eat any kind of food, whether it be hot or cold, that food is going to go straight down into your stomach, where there is a high acidity, low-ph environment that will inactivate the virus,  she said.  but it is a good idea to disinfect the takeout containers, cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. coronavirus is a respiratory virus, and it is easy to touch your face without realizing it.  if you do not have disinfecting wipes, use your own plates or bowls to serve the food. just make sure to wash your hands after transferring food from the containers."
"the virus is one of the few that can be transmitted from animals to humans. it is believed to have originated in bats, which perhaps infected live animals and seafood sold at a  wet market  in wuhan, a crowded, not so sanitary dense marketplace. bats are also hosts for ebola, hiv, and rabies.    the first person who contracted the virus on december 1, 2019, had no connection to the outdoor market, making it unclear how he contracted it in the first place.     others who shopped there came down with viral pneumonia from covid-19."
"there is yet another reason: a test can provide only a certain amount of information gain. if the probability to have contracted covid-19 before the test is too low, even though we know more after the test we may not be able to draw practical conclusions that are any different from the recommendations without test. in other words, if the recommendation goes from  stay at home and avoid contact to others  to  stay at home and avoid contact to others  the test would be wasted.  the covid-19 tests are not suitable for screening purposes  i.e. searching for infections among a population where infections are  still  very rare . they are to sort out who is infected and who is not among high-risk populations where 1 in 10  or more  are actually infected.     you may want to look at my longish answer to how accurate are coronavirus tests  for relevant background.    e.g., with the newly emergency approved roche test, we may say that a positive test result increases the odds of having covid-19 by factor of somewhere around 30 - 100, a negative result decreases the odds by a factor of 1/50 - 1/17.   if you are in a risk group with a prevalence of 8  , the pre-test odds of 8 : 92    increase to  240 to 800  : 92 or a post-test probability of having covid-19 of 70 to 90   with a positive test result, and decrease to 8 :  4600 to 1564 , i.e. the post-test probability of having covid-19 is somewhere around 0.5 to 0.2     these post-test probabilities allow practical conclusions: if you are negative, you are fine and can be let to meet the public, if you are positive you need to go to quarantine and/or treatment.   8   prevalence is my guesstimate for those who are currently  mar 15th  tested in the us  and incidentally, also in germany .  now consider the overall us population. with currently 1629 cases and a population of 328 mio., we would get pre-test odds of 1629 : 328 mio .   the test results change this to    positive result:  27700 to 162900  : 328 mio or a post-test probability of having covid-19 of 0.008 to 0.005   negative result: we do not even need to calculate this, because the pre-test probability was only 0.0005  , post-test probability is lower.   even if we assume that there is a dark number of yet unknown covid-19 cases, say, a factor 20 over the known cases, the post-test probabiliy after a positive test is about 0.2   to 1 .   what would be the practical conclusion  well, probably that the positive case should stay at home as much as possible and avoid contacts. certainly not that they can rely on acquiring immunity against sars-cov-2.  even for low risk groups who have flu-like symptoms but no known contact to covid infected people  or other high-risk situations  the pre-test probability of having covid is too low to allow the test to make a meaningful difference: after all, even if it is  only a common flu , they should stay at home, get well and not infect others meanwhile.  while the pre-test probability is likely to increase  because more people get infected , in order to keep the health system/hospitals working the recommendation will probably not change: stay at home in self-quarantine as long as the symptoms are mild, so that the health system is not burdened by cases that get well on their own.  we may also say that were the whole us population to be tested in that situation, the 32500 true cases of covid would be drowned in 3 - 10 mio. false positve cases.     328 mio - 1629     328 mio "
"no one really knows what the course of the outbreak will be. some airlines have already announced cuts through may, and president trump has mentioned isolation measures lasting through july or august. the prevailing optimistic guess among experts for when the outbreak will abate hovers at about two months."
"create a household plan of action to help protect your health and the health of those you care about in the event of an outbreak of covid-19 in your community:  talk with the people who need to be included in your plan, and discuss what to do if a covid-19 outbreak occurs in your community. plan ways to care for those who might be at greater risk for serious complications, particularly older adults and those with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease.  make sure they have access to several weeks of medications and supplies in case you need to stay home for prolonged periods of time.   get to know your neighbors and find out if your neighborhood has a website or social media page to stay connected. create a list of local organizations that you and your household can contact in the event you need access to information, healthcare services, support, and resources. create an emergency contact list of family, friends, neighbors, carpool drivers, health care providers, teachers, employers, the local public health department, and other community resources.  "
"one of the issues with covid-19 is the fact that it is transmissible even by people who are asymptomatic. you have probably heard about r0, which is the basic reproduction rate of a disease, that takes into account transmission modes and contact rate, among other things. i am not an epidemiologist, but i am operating under the assumption that someone who is obviously sick will infect relatively fewer people than someone who is asymptomatic, assuming similar contagiousness - the sick person should quarantine themself and clearly take measures to avoid spreading their sickness. a seemingly well individual, on the other hand, may not reduce their contact rate and unwittingly spread the disease.   under this assumption, consider what happens when the incubation time is equal to the doubling rate. suppose we have 1000 individuals who have the disease, but do not know it yet because they are still in the incubation period. 5.8 days later, there are now 2000 people with the disease, 1000 of which now feel sick, and 1000 of which still feel fine. those 1000 sick people quarantine themselves, dramatically lowering their rate of infecting others, let is say to 0 for the sake of simplicity. 5.8 days later, the 1000 asymptomatic people now feel sick, after having infected another 1000 people, although the 1000 already-sick individuals have not infected anyone else. at this rate, we have a linear increase in the number of cases, since old cases are quarantining themselves at the same rate new cases are spread - the number of people spreading the disease unwittingly remains constant   i have made several assumptions here, like that the transmission rate for asymptomatic individuals is higher than that of symptomatic individuals  although some symptoms, like cough, increase infectivity, and not all symptomatic individuals quarantine appropriately . i am also not sure this is really an appropriate use of  doubling time  - strictly speaking, if 1000 people quarantine, and 1000 asymptomatic people infect 1000 others, it is not a doubling of cases. the statement also seems a bit of tautological red herring - if you are able to lengthen the doubling time, you have already flattened the curve, regardless of the incubation period. but i think the general idea is that a longer doubling time can lessen the impact of asympomatic, but contagious individuals spreading the disease. "
"  the key to slowing the spread of covid-19 is to practice social distancing. while school is out, children should not have in-person playdates with children from other households. if children are playing outside their own homes, it is essential that they remain 6 feet from anyone who is not in their own household. to help children maintain social connections while social distancing, help your children have supervised phone calls or video chats with their friends. make sure children practice everyday preventive behaviors, such as washing their hands often with soap and water. remember, if children meet outside of school in groups, it can put everyone at risk.  revise spring break plans if they included non-essential travel.   information about covid-19 in children is somewhat limited, but current data suggest children with covid-19 may have only mild symptoms. however, they can still pass this virus onto others who may be at higher risk, including older adults and people who have serious underlying medical conditions.  "
"concerned.  stay on top of cdc updates and guidance, as well as from state and local health departments. take the time to sit down and plan for what you will do if local transmission of the virus occurs in your city.  even the experts are not completely sure what is going to happen.   it is hard,  said dr. stanley perlman, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the university of iowa, who described receiving a text message from his son asking whether he should stock up on canned goods.   i would be inclined not to,  perlman said.  we know from other cases that it actually tends to make things worse, because people stock up and then we do not have anything.   covid-19 appears to be more fatal than the flu, with some studies pegging covid-19 is fatality rate at around 3.4 , while the flu is fatality rate is less than 1 . still, experts anticipate that covid-19 is mortality rate will fall when more people with mild symptoms are diagnosed with the virus. typically, the sickest people tend to seek health care treatment first. compared to past coronaviruses, such as sars and mers, however, most covid-19 cases are mild.   for most people, it is going to mean no disease or a mild illness,  merson said. unfortunately, that mildness could also explain why covid-19 is spreading more rapidly than highly fatal diseases do. hiv, for example,  was very fatal, but hard to transmit,  he added."
"what you are describing is a live-virus vaccine. the only live-virus vaccines ever used were the early smallpox vaccines, which carried a significant risk of causing the disease rather than building immunity. even attenuated vaccines  using a live but weakened form of the virus  can cause disease  most cases of polio these days are caused by the oral polio vaccine. vaccines using inactivated viruses or virus fragments are strongly preferred. "
"pictures like this can be taken with an electron microscope, where the effective wavelength of the illuminating beam is far shorter than that of visible light. those pictures are in black  amp  white only  electrons do not have  color   but are then color-coded with tools like photoshop to highlight particular structures on their surfaces.   furthermore, once the exact structure of the protein molecules that form the virus has been figured out, molecular biologists can then apply computer models to the protein structures and determine with great accuracy how they fold together and interlock to create a complete virus particle.   those modeled structures can then be color-coded as well, again in the interest of highlighting where the different protein molecules are located and how they project out from the surface of the protein.   the pictures you see of ball-shaped virus particles with lumpy, colored knobs studding their surfaces were prepared in this way.  "
"states have received guidance from the cdc on how to keep voting locations clean. it is up to you whether you feel comfortable going.   many states that already held elections imposed measures to reduce contact between voters, increasing the distance between voting booths and rigorously disinfecting voting equipment. but if you go, remember - wash your hands before, during and afterward.   if you are able to mail in your ballot, do - just do not lick the envelope.   if you think you have a fever or respiratory symptoms, the cdc advises that you stay home. it is unfortunate to skip out on your civic duty, but sick people should not visit crowded locations."
"governments have a significant interest in controlling pathogens and preventing outbreaks: they are dangerous to dense  amp  unimmunized populations.     can a government legally prevent me from intentionally infecting  myself with a virus    yes, governments have the broad authority to enact laws. the us prohibits and regulates pathogen experimentation  self-infection . there are also rules regarding shipping and export  itar . furthermore, in the us, there are  fl, ny state  laws that prevent patients from being tested unless the order is given by an authorized health care professional. hopefully, you do live in a state that does not have this regulation  az .  while i do believe in one is right to do as one sees fit with one is own body, there is the counter-argument: there must be limits when it comes to unnecessarily exposing the community to pathogen risk. i hope that this question is theoretical and that nobody actually believes the immunity supposition without a credible peer-reviewed scientific publication. unfortunately we live in an age where misinformation is propagated at novel speed and scale.  i wish the op well. that being said, i have concerns regarding the underlying assumptions of the question. while i am comfortable with the op question, the underlying assumptions give me great pause.  update  imho: i hope that no reader will seriously consider amateur experimentation in self-infection in the hope of conferring immunity. giving a pathogen uncontrolled safe-haven to propagate and possibly infect others seems irresponsible.  i doubt that the government cares if any individual manages to puts themselves in an early grave, however, it does care if amateurs create an unnecessary pandemic risk. i would think that any government would view pathogen experimentation much like nuclear device experimentation, because of the mass casualty risk. i hope that readers understand the implications of an amateur uncontrolled experiment. "
will i be arrested if i step out of home  no
"several randomized trials are planned to assess the safety and efficacy of using antiretroviral drugs - mainly lpv/r - for treating covid-19, in combination with other drugs. results are expected from mid-2020 onwards."
"you will almost certainly be refused boarding by the airline or be turned away at the border by immigration.  germany has enacted an entry ban on all non-citizens, with the only exceptions being for certain travellers transiting to get to their home country or travellers seeking entry into germany for urgent reasons.  unless you have an urgent reason to enter germany, your work visa will not secure your entry at this point in time. "
"no, they are not obliged to take you back early  as you say in your tl dr you arranged 4 months leave and your employer no doubt made arrangements to deal with your absence. now, you want to return early  they are not obliged to allow you to do so just as you would not be obliged to do so if they wanted you to cut your leave short.  no doubt the current pandemic has changed the situation and in its absence, they might have been more willing to have you back early. but then, you would not want to be coming back early.  your employment status is that you are employed and on leave. subject to the details of your employment contract  there is nothing stopping you taking another job - there is a huge demand for logistics workers particularly in the health sector at the moment  much of it unskilled work. dif you want to be unemployed, you can always resign. "
" generally coronaviruses survive for shorter periods of time at higher temperatures and higher humidity than in cooler or dryer environments. however, we do not have direct data for this virus, nor do we have direct data for a temperature-based cutoff for inactivation at this point,  the cdc says.    the necessary temperature would also be based on the materials of the surface, the environment, etc.   president donald trump suggested this coronavirus could subside by the warmer summer months, but scientists say it is too early to tell. and the fact that coronavirus keeps spreading in the southern hemisphere during its summer months suggests this strain might not succumb to warmer temperatures.    the short answer is that while we may expect modest declines in the contagiousness of  novel coronavirus  in warmer, wetter weather and perhaps with the closing of schools ... it is not reasonable to expect these declines alone to slow transmission enough to make a big dent,  wrote dr. marc lipsitch, director of the center for communicable disease dynamics at harvard is t.h. chan school of public health."
"perhaps i can help answer your microbiology question which is really about sars-cov-2 which is an enveloped mrna virus. there is a lot of misunderstanding about sars-cov-2 and the medical disease it causes, covid-19. the confusion is understandable as this is a novel coronavirus with a high rate of transmission  amp  people around the globe are still in a learning curve about it. it is important to understand how to decimate sars-cov-2 whenever possible. i am an rdn  amp  years ago i went to grad school on an allied health traineeship thanks to citizens of the u.s.a. although now retired, as well as having been a clinician, i am a former prof. i believe in giving back to society which has supported me.  many pieces in the press unfortunately use terms of sars-cov-2 and then covid-19 interchangeably, which they should not. this adds to public confusion. keep in mind that disinfection in this instance pertains to decimation of the virus sars-cov-2 per se.  cleaning should precede disinfection. disinfection is biocidal elimination on fomite surfaces of microorganisms, in this instance sars-cov-2. after applying disinfecting dilution be sure to allow it adequate action time and then allow surface to air dry.  when cdc says to use  5 tablespoons  aka 1/3 cup  bleach per gallon of water  or  4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water  that is in effect 1000 ppm. cdc guidance assumes household bleach concentration to be 5-6.25 , even though most naocl manufacturers int the u.s.a. went to 8.25  back around 2012-2013. check any bottle you have  or box it came in  for the naocl concentration for that batch of bleach. when first manufactured concentration is higher, but over time actual available free chlorine level drops and adequate potency passed by 1 year out from manufacturing date. if stored at higher room temperature, cut that down to 6 months which is more realistic. adequate 1000 ppm of naocl for enough time  minimum 1 minute  can kill sars-cov-2. if the non-porous fomite surface happens to be a countertop where inadvertently later food might be placed on, then after first cleaning, then disinfecting, be sure to rinse with potable h2o, then use a sanitizing solution dilution and allow to air dry.  see:  covid-19 - disinfecting with bleach  from michigan state u center for research on ingredient safety which will explain how to read date code of manufacturing on a household bleach  naocl  bottle and how much bleach to add to cold water in order to reach what is effectively a 1000 ppm dilution if bleach is still  fresh enough  aka adequate concentration in bottle as purchased. the bleach concentration bottle code information can be read as follows  quoted or paraphrased from article : example: code e619337.  first two characters e6 identify the company facility that manufactured the bleach.   second two numbers 19 tell the year the company manufactured the bleach.  last three numbers 337 tell the day of the year the company manufactured the bleach. so, code e619337 tells us this bottle of bleach was manufactured at facility e6 in 2019 on the 337 day of the year  using a julian calendar , which is december 3. this bottle of bleach technically expires one year from december 3, 2019, so it needs to be used or disposed of by december 2, 2020.  similarly a product code a420027 tells us the product was manufactured at facility a4 in 2020 on the 27 day of the year, which is january 27. the product expires one year from january 27, 2020, so it needs to be used or disposed of by january 26, 2021.  adjust the julian calendar keeping in mind the year as 2020 is a leap year.  from experience using test strips with bleach concentrate dilutions, often that expiration timeline is closer to 6 months  commercial settings open bottle only 1 month . canr.msu.edu/news/covid-19-disinfecting-with-bleach  public health ontario has an online  chlorine dilution calculator  to help anyone determine how much naocl  household  bleach of a given concentration level to add to how much safe tap water to achieve a certain ppm of diluted chlorine sol n. one can calculate sanitizing or even disinfecting diluted chlorine sol n levels using the online calculator. although the site is in canada, they kindly include both english and metric units. http://www.publichealthontario.ca/en/health-topics/environmental-occupational-health/water-quality/chlorine-dilution-calculator  advisement of 1000 ppm for a naocl dilution based on publication: kampf, g. et al. persistence of coronaviruses on inanimate surfaces and their inactivation with biocidal agents. journal of hospital infection, volume 104, issue 3, 246 - 251  march 2020 . http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhin.2020.01.022 fomite transmission  contact w/ inanimate or nonpathogenic object surface transmission exclusive of food components  reduction via biocidal agents such as 0.1 -0.5  naocl aka 1000-5000 ppm.  ...human coronaviruses on inanimate  surfaces can be effectively inactivated by surface disinfection procedures with 62-71  ethanol, 0.5  hydrogen peroxide or 0.1  sodium hypochlorite within 1 minute.  from pre-print http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhin.2020.01.022  edit: the question is really about disinfecting for sars-cov-2, the mrna virus which causes covid-19 in humans. the edit is to: 1  clarify the actual question, which deals w/ microbiology relating to sars-cov-2, not a medical disease condition covid-19  2  acknowledge that the press has incorrectly used the two different terms interchangeably creating public confusion  amp  explain why many professionals are responding in forums around the world trying to clear up that confusion by providing accurate information  3  include current full rather than shortened links to details of naocl disinfection of sars-cov-2 with enough detail that if links are later unavailable readers will still know what to do. "
"is herd immunity a better preventive strategy than social distancing  the united kingdom is using this model where it is allowing the virus to spread but is protecting the higher-risk group like the elderly people and people with heart conditions, hypertension, respiratory diseases etc. the idea is that since mortality is much less in younger age groups, they may end up having a large number of positive cases but will also lead to herd immunity given their lower mortality rate. as per experts, one problem with herd immunity is that if younger people get infected and infect the elderly at their home etc, then it can lead to higher mortality. this is why experts feel that social distancing is a better method in case of india."
"no. antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. covid-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of covid-19. they should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection."
"the paths of a feynman integral do not always have to be continuous, and the first example that comes to my mind is the feynman integral in the feynman-vernon formalism, which is used to study the spin-boson model, among other things.  for the spin-boson problem, the  x t   paths written in your question, are discontinuous. if the spin in your spin-boson problem is a spin-1/2 particle, then  x t   will be either -1/2 or  1/2 at each time  t , and the feynman integral will be over all possible paths, of which i will give four examples below:     x t     -1/2 for all  t .  x t      1/2 for all  t .  x t     -1/2 from  t 0  to  t  5ps, and  x t    1/2 for the rest of the time.  x t     -1/2 from  t 0  to  t  5ps,  x t    1/2 from  t  5ps to  t  10ps, then  x t   -1/2 for the rest of the time.   if you allow all possible flips between spin-up and spin-down between  t 0  and the rest of your desired time for the feynman integral, there will be an infinite number of such paths.   the software feyndyn  feynman dynamics  can calculation such feynman integrals for up to 16 spin-1/2 particles  or 16 qubits, if simulating a quantum computer in the presence of noise  and more information about this whole  feynman-vernon  formalism can be found in this paper  i have given a free link to the pdf rather than the original journal, in case covid lockdown has caused you not to be on a campus where you can download papers easily .  "
"the virus causing covid-19 infects the respiratory tract. it is spread in droplets of moisture when an infected person sneezes, coughs, and exhales. these droplets can be inhaled directly and can also end up on surfaces, where they can be picked up on your hands and then spread to your face.  the who recommends hand washing and avoiding touching your face with unwashed hands as the primary ways to protect against infection.  could a toilet seat potentially transfer the virus  perhaps, but there is nothing special about a toilet compared to other surfaces in a bathroom, and there are no recommendations to treat that surface in particular. the way that you would transfer virus from those surfaces would be by touching them with your hands and then touching your face. the who recommends hand washing to combat this. "
"i think it is a great idea. it protects your eyes from respiratory droplets and keeps you from touching your face. i do not know how well it would work from keeping droplet from reaching your mouth, but probably pretty well, especially if you used it with an n95 respirator. it might be a little shocking/intimidating to people, so i would only use it in extremely infected areas.  "
"yes, do use household dilute h2o2 but, in general, do not use commercial percarbonates powders as they can contain an additive to convert the friendly percarbonate into more powerful peracetic acid  paa . the latter allows the otherwise weak bleaching power of the h2o2 to compete with chlorine-based bleaching. however, this comes at a price  safety . hence, the dire warning labels, usually in at least two languages, on oxi-bleach and generic related products.  i quote myself on this subject:    sodium percarbonate is chemically just an addition compound of na2co3 and hydrogen peroxide.    also, while sodium carbonate and sodium percarbonate  basically na2co3 and 3na2co3.2h2o2  are often listed as the main ingredients in typical chlorine free bleach, an additive, taed, which acts as a key activator  see, for example  is not even listed on the label. tetraacetylethylenediamine is apparently commonly employed as a bleach activator in many laundry products  see this . taed reacts with h2o2 in alkaline conditions  referred to as perhydrolysis  creating, in part, peracetic acid. the latter paa is actually preferred over sluggish h2o2 for bleaching. in other words, it is not the h2o2 as the active bleaching agent, but paa created in situ. so, other than possibly misleading implying that eco friendly hydrogen peroxide is the active agent, it is, in reality, paa, a probematic compound with associated health concerns  see marquand, e. c.  et al. , 2007.  asthma caused by peracetic acid-hydrogen peroxide mixture . j. occup. health. 49  2 : 155-158. . here is a msds on an actual paa mix   76-61  water, paa 20-35 , 3  acetic acid and 1  h2o2  available at which is far from friendly but does eventually totally decompose into harmless o2, co2, h2o,...    as such anyone using a commercial percarbonate product should at least be aware of safety issues and that one is likely employing a peracetic acid mix.   however, such more powerful paa based mixtures do have their use and is recommended by the u.s. military as a chemical/biological warfare decontamination protocol  see  development of bicarbonate-activated peroxide as a chemical and biological warfare agent decontaminant  . so, it is up to the user to weigh the relative risks of the situation. "
"  i just want to understand what the policies look like.   they are all different, so you need to read the exclusions of the one that you have or plan on getting. they also get updated frequently. i checked a few today and about half of them to claim during the booking process that they cover coronavirus related medical expenses. interesting enough, it was quite cheap, so it does not seem like the insurance companies think this is a big risk.  "
"no. the symptoms of covid-19 are similar in children and adults. however, children with confirmed covid-19 have generally presented with mild symptoms. reported symptoms in children include cold-like symptoms, such as fever, runny nose, and cough. vomiting and diarrhea have also been reported. it is not known yet whether some children may be at higher risk for severe illness, for example, children with underlying medical conditions and special healthcare needs. there is much more to be learned about how the disease impacts children."
"the first cases of covid-19 were believed to be linked to a live-animal market in china, but the virus has since been spreading from person to person.    person-to-person transmission is most likely between people in close contact, about 6 feet. when a person infected with novel coronavirus sneezes or coughs, respiratory droplets could land on people nearby or could possibly be inhaled by those people.    while the virus can be transmitted by touching objects or surfaces contaminated with covid-19, health experts do not currently believe that is primarily how it is transmitted."
"on february 11, 2020 the world health organization announced an official name for the disease that is causing the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak, first identified in wuhan china. the new name of this disease is coronavirus disease 2019, abbreviated as covid-19. in covid-19,  co  stands for  corona,   vi  for  virus,  and would  for disease. formerly, this disease was referred to as  2019 novel coronavirus  or  2019-ncov . there are many types of human coronaviruses including some that commonly cause mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses. covid-19 is a new disease, caused be a novel  or new  coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans. the name of this disease was selected following the world health organization  who  best practiceexternal iconexternal icon for naming of new human infectious diseases."
"united airlines uses a  new money  concept for change fees.  basically this means that you can cancel your flight at this time and receive a  953 credit voucher. however in order to use that voucher at a later stage you will need to pay  400  new money   ie, the  400 can not come out of the voucher value , and then you will be able to use the full  953 value of the credit.  depending on when the trip is, you may want to wait until it is a little closer to the date to see if they add rome to their waiver list for areas affected by the coronavirus. if they do that you will likely be able to  at least  avoid paying the change fee. the refund amount/change fee will not change over time, so as long as you cancel at least a day or two before the flight there is no reason not to wait. "
i think you are asking about trials  see the clinical trials database 
"typically, insurance companies will cover disrupted or canceled trips  only under very specific circumstances  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-travel-questions- advice.html . but if you purchased cancel-for-any-reason insurance for your trip, there is a good chance you will get a good share of your money back. be sure to read the fine print on your coverage before speaking with a representative."
"expectant mothers should be encouraged to have a birth partner with them during labour and birth, the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists says, unless the partner is showing symptoms of coronavirus.  as local trusts may place restrictions on visitors, partners may not be able to go to antenatal appointments, or stay with women on antenatal or postnatal wards. but this does not mean they cannot attend the birth, as long as they feel well.  some nhs trusts will allow only one birth partner to be in attendance, where previously they had allowed two. there were reports that others had banned partners  attendance altogether, before doing a u-turn on official advice.  understandably, some pregnant women feel nervous about going into a hospital in case it increases their risk of catching the coronavirus.  maternity units are carrying out some consultations over the phone or via video link, but some in-person visits with the midwife are essential for the wellbeing of the mother and baby, the royal college of midwives says.  it adds that home births may no longer be available in some local areas, mainly due to staff and ambulance shortages, but maternity wards are being kept as separate from covid-19 treatment areas as possible."
cdc is overall case numbers are validated through a confirmation process with jurisdictions. the process used for finding and confirming cases displayed by different places may differ.
"vaccines need extensive testing before they can be used. there is essentially no medical intervention which requires more testing than vaccines, which are used in extremely large numbers of healthy patients.  generally this involves basic research, animal testing, phase i testing   is it safe in humans  at what dose   , phase ii testing   is it effective  at what dose  are there side effects   , and phase iii testing   is it safe and effective across all different subpopulations   .  as just one example of what could potentially go wrong: many/most covid-19 deaths involve cytokine storms which are, roughly, damaging inflammatory immune overreactions. priming the immune system could potentially worsen them and increase deaths by strengthening the immune response.  it does not seem likely, but this is why we test.  "
"do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good  many of the issues you have raised are perfectly reasonable concerns. having said that, it is important to distinguish between cases where reported data is wrong, versus cases where reported data is correct, but is limited in its usage due to the omission of other relevant information. the latter case is really quite ubiquitous in statistical analysis, since it is very rare that we have all the data we would ideally like to have. in such circumstances, it is also important not to make the perfect the enemy of the good by presuming that the absence of a comprehensive dataset on every variable we would like to know about precludes any reasonable inferences being made from the data we have.  the main comprehensive public dataset we have available for the covid-19 virus is the data held and updated by the john hopkins coronavirus resource centre at john hopkins university. this is the repository of data that is being used for the vast majority of media reports and data visualisations on the spread of covid-19. the database has data on confirmed infections, recoveries, and deaths, plus gis data on where these occurred. the data is sourced from the who and various national health departments, and it is being updated frequently.  it is certainly true that there are a lot of other things we would ideally like to have data about, to assist in understanding the path and severity of the virus. as you have suggested, it would be wonderful if we could also obtaina comprehensive dataset on all the tests that have actually been conducted  including the negative results , and the characteristics of all the affected patients, including their age, sex, and health factors. at this early stage it is probably overly ambitious to expect all of this data to have been collected and collated, but hopefully the various health departments of the world will eventually be able to bring some of this data together. health departments cannot legally disclose health information on particular patients in a way that would make them identifiable, so it is an extremely complex task to collate this type of data if the goal is to make it available for public analysis. no doubt there will be some efforts to obtain and collate more detailed data, but it will be a difficult task.  when interpreting limited data, it is desirable to describe that data in a way that makes it clear how it was collected, and this collection mechanism forms a caveat on analysis. thus, we can refer to the reported numbers of infections, recoveries, deaths, etc., from each of the reporting countries, while noting that there may be disparities from these figures to the actual true numbers. most health departments around the world are set up so that they can obtain these figures with reasonable accuracy, so that large diparities between reported figures and the true values are unlikely, except in the case of countries that make a deliberate effort to suppress this information. notwithstanding the lack of the ideal data you would like, from the reported data there are certainly some things that we can reasonably infer. for most countries, the data is likely to be a reasonably representation of the number of infected, recovered, and dead patients out of those who have been properly tested.  of course, i take some of the data, such as the recent numbers from china, with a large degree of scepticism.  it is also likely that there are other infected and recovered people who have not been tested, and who therefore do not form part of the reported statistics. even so, this data gives us a pretty good look at growth rates for the infection in various cities and countries around the world, which allows us to see where the virus has progresssed most rapidly, and where it has been relatively contained. these numbers also allow some attempt at extrapolation, which allows health authorities to make predictions on the likely number of cases at future dates, and the health burden this will create in different places.  your question appears to assert that most of these trends are likely to be  wrong  due to the absence of data on other factors such as total testing and patient health. in my view, that is not the correct way to look at it. rather, the reported trends may be correct, in the limited descriptive sense, but there may still be underlying non-reported factors that would give reason to anticipate future changes in those trends. personally, i am extremely impressed at how rapidly these various organisations have coordinated a large data collation and made public online platforms reporting on the infection and updating it frequently. i can log on every day and see updated graphical information showing the progression of the infection in virtually any city or country in the world  the data may not be perfect, but i would think it would bear enough of a resemblance to reality to be valuable information. i think the effort is quite amazing, and it far past what we could do even ten years ago. "
"there is the rule of three saying     if a certain event did not occur in a sample with  n  subjects, the interval from  0  to  3/n  is a 95  confidence interval for the rate of occurrences in the population.   you have  n 6 , so says   0, 3/6 0.5   is a 95  confidence interval for the binomial  p  of transmission. in non-technical language: 6 non-events is way too few for any strong conclusions. this data is interesting, suggesting something, but no more.  this rule of three is discussed at cv multiple times is rule of three inappropriate in some cases , when to use  and not use  the rule of three, using rule of three to obtain confidence interval for a binomial population and certainly more ... a more principled approach is here: confidence interval around binomial estimate of 0 or 1 and using code from an answer to that question:  binom::binom.confint 0, 6, method c  wilson ,  bayes ,  agresti-coull  , type  central     method x n mean lower upper 1 agresti-coull 0 6 0.00000000 -0.05244649 0.4427808 2 bayes 0 6 0.07142857 0.00000000 0.2641729 3 wilson 0 6 0.00000000 0.00000000 0.3903343  "
"the airline did not cancel your flight. they cancelled a flight that you were not booked on at the time of the cancellation. it is as simple as this. you were not booked on the flight, so you are due no compensation.  if you had not already canceled your tickets, and you were still booked on the flight at the time of the cancellation, then you might have been due compensation under eu261, but it is very likely that the airline would consider an epidemic to be  extraordinary circumstances  which removes the need for the airline to provide compensation.  addition to address the update to the question : simplistically speaking, airline bookings have two parts - a  reservation  which covers the booking on specific flight segments on specific days, and a  ticket  which basically shows that you have paid for those flights. when you book a flight, first a reservation is created, then you pay, and then a ticket is issued.  when you cancel flights, the reservation of those flights is cancelled. at that point, you are no longer booked on those flights, although you still potentially hold a ticket. this will happen immediately that you ask for the flights to be cancelled, as the airline wants to be able to free up the seats so they can sell them to someone else. no refund will be made as a part of cancelling a reservation.  at this point, you hold a ticket that states you have paid  x for, but which contains no flight segments as they have been cancelled. depending on the airline, the actual ticket you purchased, and any special conditions the airline might allow  such as allowing refunds during an event like an epidemic even if the ticket does not normally allow refunds , the value on that ticket might be lost entirely, might be only able to be used to book a future flight, or might allow a refund.  in order to actually get the refund, whoever issued the ticket  which might be the airline you were flying, another airline, or a travel agency  will need to cancel it and process the refund back to you. this is a separate step in the process, and it could happen hours, days, or even months after the reservation was cancelled.  however none of that changes the fact that once the reservation has been updated, you were no longer booked on that flight, and thus no longer due compensation. "
"many health care workers do not actually have enough protective gear to handle the growing influx of coronavirus patients.   some have resorted to using plastic report covers as masks. the cdc said medical providers might have to use expired masks or reuse them between multiple patients.  this shortage is why the general public should not buy medical masks and instead make cloth masks at home.   but it is not just subpar protective gear that puts medical workers at risk. it is also the amount of virus they are exposed to.    the viral load -- the amount of virus - does determine the severity of your illness,  emergency room physician dr. leana wen said.  so that could happen in the case of health care workers who are exposed to a lot more covid-19 as a result of their work -- that they get more severely ill. "
"ars 33-1343 allows the landlord to show the place, with two days notice. none of the executive orders suspend this aspect of the law: the eviction order is directed at law enforcement, and orders a temporary delay in enforcement of eviction orders. the governor does not have clear constitutional or statutory authority to suspend all or part of ars 33-1343. the initial declaration of emergency lists the various statutory authorities, such as ars 36-787. in order to suspend the landlord access law, the legislative would have to enact a new law, which the governor would have to sign into law. there is no applicable federal order, and any such order would be of dubious constitutionality  landlord-tenant laws are a state matter, not a federal matter . "
"doctors say it is unlikely that the coronavirus would make you sick twice, especially if your body does a good job fighting it the first time."
covid-19 can be passed from person to person through droplets from coughs and sneezes.
"yes. in recent days, there have been reports of disruptions in the supply chains of essential malaria commodities - such as long-lasting insecticidal nets, rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial medicines - resulting from lockdowns and from a suspension of the importation and exportation of goods in response to covid-19. coordinated action is required to ensure the availability of key malaria control tools, particularly in countries with a high burden of the disease, and that efforts to limit the spread of covid-19 do not compromise access to malaria prevention, diagnosis and treatment services."
"most people who get covid-19 will be able to recover at home. cdc has directions for people who are recovering at home and their caregivers, including:  stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.  when to seek medical attentionif you develop emergency warning signs for covid-19 get medical attention immediately. emergency warning signs include :  trouble breathing persistent pain or pressure in the chest new confusion or inability to arouse bluish lips or face   this list is not all inclusive. please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.    use a separate room and bathroom for sick household members  if possible . wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. provide your sick household member with clean disposable facemasks to wear at home, if available, to help prevent spreading covid-19 to others. clean the sick room and bathroom, as needed, to avoid unnecessary contact with the sick person. avoid sharing personal items like utensils, food, and drinks.  "
"the additional check in time is needed for all the extra paperwork. repatriation flights are organized and approved by governments to help return citizens to their country of origin. they can not let anyone on board who is simply willing to pay the fare. they must check and double check your passport, citizenship status, etc. moreover, scheduling a repatriation flight is not the same as regular commercial flight operation. the planes often arrive empty, without a regular gate to occupy, without a regular slot to fly and the whole operation can be changed at the last-minute. if you really want to get on the flight then it is best to be there extra early to deal with the unexpected. "
"the world health organization and many infectious disease experts say that there is no good scientific evidence establishing a link between ibuprofen and worsening of covid-19. the notion that such a link exists was sparked last weekend when a tweet by the french health minister warned people not to take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -- a category of pain relievers and fever reducers that includes ibuprofen -- because, he said, some french covid-19 patients had experienced serious side effects. the warning was also included in a bulletin from the french health ministry, which counseled that patients should instead use acetaminophen, the generic name for tylenol. but experts say that warning is not based on data.  based on currently available information, who does not recommend against the use of ibuprofen,  the who stated on its official twitter account, adding,   we are also consulting with physicians treating covid-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative effects of ibuprofen, beyond the usual known side effects that limit its use in certain populations.  dr. angela rogers, a pulmonologist at the stanford university medical center and chair of its intensive care unit is covid-19 task force, notes that tylenol is the go-to medication for patients who are sick enough to be hospitalized for any infection. that is because these patients are at higher risk of damage to internal organs, including kidneys. and kidney damage can be a side effect of ibuprofen for some patients who use it long-term in higher doses, says rogers, whose research focuses on the kind of acute respiratory distress experienced by the most severe covid-19 cases. tylenol, like any medicine, is not risk-free either  rogers notes that acetaminophen can cause serious liver damage in high doses. in low doses, though, she says, tylenol is  very effective  for reducing fever and  very safe. "
"it is fine to ask. life goes on as best we can manage. the situation is worldwide, of course, and we do not yet see the end of it.   in a letter, you could, if you wish, say you are sorry if the request is coming at a bad time and that you understand the global situation.   you may not be able to get a reply in time, of course, or at all. but there is no problem asking. there is only a week left.   and note that people will want to start up as normal again as soon as the situation allows. things may be delayed.  "
"not yet. but in mid-march, the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases  announced  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus- vaccine.html  it was beginning the first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine. such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, and it was possible because researchers were able to use what they already knew about related coronaviruses that had caused other outbreaks, of sars and mers. other companies, using different approaches, are also trying to manufacture coronavirus vaccines. but it is not certain they will work yet. and despite the rapid progress, even if the vaccine is proved safe and effective against the virus, it will not be available for at least a year."
"the visa status should not prevent him from leaving germany. under normal circumstances overstays may be punished, but for people who leave on their own after a few days that would at most be a fine. that makes the response by the border police puzzling. are you sure nothing was lost in translation   the city of munich writes:   contact the kvr before the visa expires. he has done that. he will receive a certification which is valid until the kvr reopens. that has not happened yet. if there is no reply yet, he should send a mail with scans of    passport and visa a confirmation of the hotel or host where he is staying. a proof that departure is impossible.  they do not say what that is.  if available, proof of health insurance.    so it seems that he did everything required and the city administration can not keep up.   he should take care to get everything documented properly so that there are no problems with the next schengen visa application.     while i understand that returning home might be a personal emergency for him, i would think that munich is reasonably safe at this time. germany has more confirmed infections than iran, but fatalities are fewer. "
"we still do not know fully how covid-19 affects pregnant women, but they have been placed into the  high risk  category meaning they should minimise all social contact. we also do not know how long the pandemic will last, and going into hospital for essential scans and check-ups is likely to increase your risk of contracting the virus. you could also find that birthing options are reduced and resources more stretched than usual. however, if you are already pregnant, the important thing is not to panic and to still attend essential hospital appointments."
"there is some evidence that pets can be infected with the coronavirus - but it is thought they cannot infect people with it. however, it is still important to protect yourself from bacteria that can pass between pets and humans - that means washing hands. british veterinary association president daniella dos santoshas suggested another reason why people should practise good hand hygiene if they have animals. she explained:  an animal is fur could carry the virus for a time if a pet were to have come into contact with someone who was sick.  doctor james is a vet on cbbc show the pets factor, and he is been answering questions about whether animals can catch the virus, or even if they should wear face masks for protection."
"yes, google has published these statistics at a per-state level for the united states.   to use the example in your question of new york, compared with a state with far fewer covid-19 cases currently, such as west virginia, we can see that new york has seen large reductions in mobility trends across every category except residential, while west virginia has relatively smaller reductions, and in fact a large increase in mobility trends for parks.   this seems to be similar across the board, with the statistics for nebraska, with a similar number of cases as west virginia also showing smaller reductions in most categories, a smaller increase in residential mobility trends, and a whopping 109  increase in mobility trends to parks. new jersey, however, another state which has been fairly badly hit, sees a large reduction in the statistics across the board.  at a first glance, then, this would seem to support your theory that these numbers fell more significantly within states that have been hardest hit by the pandemic so far, meaning that social distancing measures are being complied with and taken more seriously in these states. further analysis would need to be performed on the full data set, including the range of social distancing regulations and enforcement levels in the individual states in order to draw full conclusions.  google themselves state in their reports that  location accuracy and the understanding of categorized places varies from region to region, so we do not recommend using this data to compare changes between countries, or between regions with different characteristics  e.g. rural versus urban areas .  "
"the british retail consortium says retailers and their suppliers are continuing to work to the highest standards of hygiene when handling products, and are observing safety processes set by the food standards agency and public health england.    however, it makes sense to wash unpackaged items such as fruit and vegetables thoroughly under running water, before leaving them to dry. you should also then wash your hands with soap and water."
"yes, qr axles can be replaced at will with solid axles for all standard axle hubs.  standard axle means a hub that can accept a generic third party axle. many hubs are not.   be mindful that the common toothed type axle nuts are good at tearing up aluminum and carbon frames. use washers and grease the threads. "
"from the vantage point of other species, humans might be considered  bugs  in the sense that we are organisms that are causal in the ongoing extinction of numerous species. we are doing a pretty good job of it, so far:    the included extinctions span numerous families of plants 4  and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods. with widespread degradation of highly biodiverse habitats such as coral reefs and rainforests, as well as other areas, the vast majority of these extinctions are thought to be undocumented, as the species are undiscovered at the time of their extinction, or no one has yet discovered their extinction. the current rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than natural background rates.  "
"thank you all very much for your comments and suggestions.  given the uncertainty, i decided to call us customs and border protection  did not even know i could  was only on hold for 3 minutes.  they said that her current plan is just as risky as coming to sfo 15 or 17 days since leaving the schengen area. the remaining risk is just due to the discretionary power of the cbp officer, and the cbp person on the phone said that she had heard of travelers getting turned away more than 14 days after exiting the schengen area because of this discretion. in her words to me,  i just hope she gets a good officer.   the one bit of advice she did give is to print out and provide documentation of travel and the relevant dates, etc., to make the situation clear to the cbp officer approving  or not  entry. "
"scientists are not sure yet. for many viruses, including the mers virus, patients are unlikely to be re-infected shortly after they recover because a protective antibody is generated in those who are infected. but scientists still need to do more research to determine if this is also the case with covid-19 and how long those antibodies may last.     however, in certain individuals, the antibody cannot last that long. for many patients who have been cured, there is a likelihood of relapse,  said li qingyuan, director of pneumonia prevention and treatment at china japan friendship hospital in beijing.    poland agreed, saying the chance of reinfection is  very likely. "
"i can not speak for rebecca is judgement in interpreting those words of trump, but for instance a nyt article says:     our people want to return to work,  mr. trump declared tuesday on twitter, adding,  the cure cannot be worse  by far  than the problem      in essence, he was raising an issue that economists have long grappled with: how can a society assess the trade-off between economic well-being and health   ...      we put a lot of weight on saving lives,  said casey mulligan, a university of chicago economist who spent a year as chief economist on mr. trump is council of economic advisers.  but it is not the only consideration. that is why we do not shut down the economy every flu season. they are ignoring the costs of what they are doing. they also have very little clue how many lives they are saving.   ...      making people poorer has health consequences as well,  said kip viscusi, an economist at vanderbilt university who has spent his career using economic techniques to assess the costs and benefits of government regulations.    jobless people sometimes commit suicide. the poor are likelier to die if they get sick. mr. viscusi estimates that across the population, every loss of income of  100 million in the economy causes one additional death.    government agencies calculate these trade-offs regularly. the environmental protection agency, for instance, has established a cost of about  9.5 million per life saved as a benchmark for determining whether to clean up a toxic waste site.    other agencies use similar values to assess whether to invest in reducing accidents at an intersection or to tighten safety standards in a workplace. the department of agriculture has a calculator to estimate the economic costs -- medical care, premature deaths, productivity loss from nonfatal cases -- of food-borne disease.   so, the argument  in there  is that governments always make such trade-offs/choices, whether they are incredibly open about them or less so.    i should also mention  here, in case comments get purged again  that the nyt article discusses in a bit more depth the finer points of balancing the economic losses from lockdowns with those that would occur in an unchecked epidemic. this topic has been a addressed in some recent economics publications, e.g. eichenbaum et al. discussed in the nyt article  but see also a simpler  lockdowns 101 economics . for the broader economic aspects of the crisis see also  the economics of coronavirus  on econ se. "
"if you live with your partner, they count as being part of your household. if neither of you is showing coronavirus symptoms and you are already in close contact, having sex will not increase the likelihood of you catching the virus from one another. if one person does have symptoms, they should be self-isolating in a separate room. using contraception such as condoms will not alter your risk of catching the virus, as having sex will bring you into close physical contact anyway.  if you are going to touch each other is genitals it is likely that you will potentially be kissing at the same time - and we know the virus is passed through saliva,  dr alex george told the bbc is newsbeat.  essentially, any possibility of transfer of coronavirus - from your mouth to your hands, to genitals, to someone else is nose or mouth - increases the risk of passing on coronavirus. "
"on january 17th, the cdc announced that covid-19 screening would begin at  three u.s. airports that receive most of the travelers from wuhan, china: san francisco  sfo , new york  jfk , and los angeles  lax  airports.   they also state in this press release that:    cdc is actively monitoring this situation for pertinent information  about the source of outbreak, and risk for further spread through  person-to-person or animal-to-person transmission. cdc may adjust  screening procedures and other response activities as this outbreak  investigation continues and more is learned about the newly emerging  virus. entry screening alone is not a guarantee against the possible  importation of this new virus but is an important public health tool  during periods of uncertainty and part of a multilayered government  response strategy. as new information emerges, cdc will reassess entry  screening measures and could scale activities up or down accordingly.   this indicates that an assessment of the likelihood of importation of the virus into the us was completed, and a decision was made that only the airports with the largest amount of traffic needed to be screened. they do however note that this is not a guarantee that the virus will not be imported. further on in the briefing, they mention that:    china health officials report that most of the patients infected with  2019-ncov have had exposure to a large market where live animals were  present, suggesting this is a novel virus that has jumped the species  barrier to infect people. chinese authorities additionally report that  several hundred health care workers caring for outbreak patients are  being monitored and no spread of this virus from patients to health  care workers has been seen. they report no sustained spread of this  virus in the community, however there are indications that some  limited person-to-person spread may have occurred. cdc is responding  to this outbreak out of an abundance of caution, ready to detect  people infected with 2019-cov.   this briefing suggests that while the cdc was preparing for human-to-human transmission to be confirmed, and may have even thought that this was likely, it did not have the data to confirm this.  later on, on the 21st, the cdc released another briefing after the first covid-19 positive patient was identified in the us. the briefing notes that the patient returned from china on the 15th, before the screening mentioned above was implemented. this release, however also does not state that human-to-human transmission is confirmed, but mentions that    while originally thought to be spreading from animal-to-person, there  are growing indications that limited person-to-person spread is  happening. it is unclear how easily this virus is spreading between  people.   at this point the cdc also implemented screening at two more airports, atlanta and chicago.  it seems clear, therefore, that the cdc did not have access to data which confirmed human-to-human transmission, although the steps taken to implement health screening at airports, and the advice given to healthcare providers on january 8th indicates that it certainly thought that the likelihood of this was great. clearly the health screening also proves that spread from wuhan was seen as a possibility, although we can infer from the fact that this was initially only set up at three airports that this was either not seen as a large possibility, or that the spread via air-travel was not expected to be high enough to warrant a complete lock-down. "
"absolutely there is a way to propagate yeast, it is as simple as making a starter with it. most of the time these days people create starters for sourdough using natural yeasts, but you can use them to feed any kind of yeast. all you would do is put flour and water in a container with some yeast, let it get to work and once you start to get bubbles put it in the fridge to slow it down. you would then use half of it for every batch of bread you make, replacing the flour and water to keep it at the same quantity.   if you do not use any of it for a few days you would want to throw half away and refill in order to give the yeast a fresh supply of food. you can share this with as many people as you like, just split it into two, give each a fresh supply of flour and water, and repeat as many times as necessary. using this technique a small amount of yeast could theoretically supply the entire planet.   note: during the coronavirus outbreak it is worth noting that corona can survive on surfaces for quite some time, so you should take great care to ensure that your yeast propagation does not lead to virus propagation  "
"president donald trump and treasury secretary steve mnuchin have targeted april 6. tax experts  and lawmakers working on this  are very skeptical of that date. there is no question they want -- and need to turn this around -- asap. there are also different ways it could be done -- through direct deposit  which would be the quickest delivery mechanism , through mailing a paper check or even, according to some people involved in the discussions, through mailing pre-loaded debit cards. but the reality is there is not a firm answer yet. in other words, treasury has a lot of work ahead of it."
"coronaviruses are a relatively broad family of viruses named for the spikes that come out of a virus particle. under a microscope, they look like a crown, or a halo -- like the sun is corona. the current coronavirus first emerged from wuhan, in china is hubei province, most likely from a fish and animal market where humans routinely come into direct contact with animals. the virus probably jumped from an animal -- we still do not know for sure what species -- to a human, a process of interspecies transmission called zoonosis. the virus itself is called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, or sars-cov-2. the disease caused by the virus is called coronavirus disease 2019, or covid-19."
"the online application for eidls has been open since monday. you can find it here. the feedback i have received so far is that it takes less than 30 minutes. you will need a profit and loss from january 31, 2019 - january 31, 2020. you will also need to unfreeze your credit report if you have frozen it. the sba determines initial loan size based on your credit score, not your ability to pay. you apply for the ppp through your local bank. yesterday, the sba offered a specific timeline for different applications.  starting april 3, 2020, small businesses and sole proprietorships can apply for and receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through existing sba lenders. starting april 10, 2020, independent contractors and self-employed individuals can apply for and receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through existing sba lenders. other regulated lenders will be available to make these loans as soon as they are approved and enrolled in the program.  just because your date is not here yet, it does not mean you can not start preparing for the process. you can find sba lenders here. you can find the sample ppp application here."
"when a us citizen dies outside the united states, the deceased person is next of kin or legal representative should notify us consular officials at the department of state. consular personnel are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide assistance to us citizens for overseas emergencies. if a family member, domestic partner, or legal representative is in a different country from the deceased person, he or she should call the department of state is office of overseas citizens services in washington, dc, from 8 am to 5 pm eastern time, monday through friday, at 888-407-4747  toll-free  or 202-501-4444. for emergency assistance after working hours or on weekends and holidays, call the department of state switchboard at 202-647-4000 and ask to speak with the overseas citizens services duty officer. in addition, the us embassyexternal iconexternal iconexternal icon closest to or in the country where the us citizen died can provide assistance."
"people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick.  who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share updated findings."
"because coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, anyone with existing breathing problems is at higher risk. those with severe asthma have been placed in the  extremely vulnerable  group, meaning they are advised to stay at home for at least 12 weeks and should have been contacted by the government. those with mild asthma should still practise social distancing and only go out for essentials. if you start displaying coronavirus symptoms that do not improve after seven days, or you have difficulty breathing, make sure you call 111 or 999 and explain that you have asthma. when people with asthma get respiratory infections, it can set off their asthma symptoms. asthma uk recommends you keep taking your preventer inhaler daily as prescribed, to help cut the risk of an asthma attack being triggered by coronavirus. you should also carry your reliever inhaler with you every day, in case you feel your asthma symptoms flaring up."
"yes.  the world health organization defines a pandemic as  the worldwide spread of a new disease,  and on march 11, the who is director general announced that covid-19 met those criteria.  dr. tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, the who is director general, stressed that the designation does not mean that citizens should stop trying to contain the virus.   find, isolate, test and treat every case, and trace every contact,  he said.  ready your hospitals. protect and train your health care workers.   for the united states, community transmission in several cities and a growing number of cases that are not able to be traced to travel or contact with individuals diagnosed with covid-19 makes it probable that there will be extensive spread here.   a lot of us have been sitting back and watching this from a distant place,  schaffner noted, adding that the game has changed in recent days. he cautioned against  running around like a chicken with its head cut off,  and recommended thinking ahead. a large increase in cases in your community could mean school closures or other changes to your routine.     be prudent and be prepared to participate as much as you can in social distancing when that becomes the order of the day,  he said. if health authorities advise against mass gatherings, for example, do not make a fuss.     it should not panic you,  schaffner said.  but it should get your attention. "
"reproduction numbers  first of all, the basic reproduction number   r 0   refers to the contageous person meeting susceptible people only: the expected number of cases directly generated by one case in a population where all individuals are susceptible to infection. so  r 0  is not affected by vaccination status  or acquired immunity  of the population, but it includes factors such as being contageous already during incubation period  i.e. while still free of symptoms, how contageous a single virus particle is, how long a virus particle lasts under  normal  circumstances, ...   in contrast, the effective reproduction number r includes the effects of vaccination, acquired immunity, behaviour and other measures to reduce infection risk.  the wiki page linked above lists  r 0  for covid-19 as 1.4-3.9 and for the spanish flu of 1918 as 2-3.  now, for the countries that still have just a few covid-19 cases and that are just beginning to take measures to slow the spread, the effective reproduction number will be roughly the same as the basic reproduction number: noone is immune yet, and no measures to reduce the number of contacts yet.     does that mean that the flu actually has a much higher transmission rate in un-vaccinated people and the average works out to a number similar to covid19 in an unvaccinated population    sort-of, but rather the other way round: it means that the effective reproduction number is lower for the flu even though their  r 0 s are similar.   this review paper gives an r of about 1.8 for the 1918 flu and about 1.3 for the  normal  seasonal flu.    vaccination    or does in mean that vaccine does not stop the spread as much as it really stops the disease    that can also happen. of course, the best and intended outcome of vaccination is that the acquired immunity is sufficient to prevent infection. which means that the vaccinated person cannot spread the disease. however, not all vaccinatione we have and use achieve this - we still use them if they greatly reduce the severity of the disease. e.g. even with varicella vaccination 10 - 30   of the exposed to get chickenpox  but even with them, serious disease is avoided .   for the flu, the difficulty is that new strains appear regularly. this is also the reason why flu vaccination is done annually with a newly developed vaccine while e.g. for mmrv, pertussis, polio boosting with the existing vaccine every 10 years is sufficient  immunity actually may last even longer, up to lifelong , but that varies by person, and since many vaccines have not been around that long, we do not know for which that is the case . in fact, flu strains appear so often that the development of the annual flu vaccine includes educated guesses which strains are going to be important for next season. sometimes that guess is off. wikipedia on flu vaccination has a table giving effectiveness  actual reduction of infection risk  between 10 - 60   for different years. even if the acquired immunity by vaccination is for the wrong strain, one may still benefit from cross-immunity    in that the disease will be milder and possibly shorter.      also acquired immunity after a disesase does not always last life-long, e.g. a pertussis infection will achieve immunity for 4 - 20 years only  4 - 12 years for vaccination  "
"a natural  and perhaps naive  way to model mortality would be a binomial model, i.e.,     x  sim  text binomial  n, p      here  x  is the number of deaths,  n  is the total number of people infected, and  p  is the mortality rate, or the probability of dying given that you have the disease.  when we say something is distributed according to a binomial distribution, we mean that the observed counts  x  are the result of  n  independent trials, each with probability of  success   in this case, death   p . these are usually termed  bernoulli trials .  we can now examine the likelihood of  p  given  x  and  n  -- i.e., how likely it would be to see the data we have observed, given different values of  p . imagine we had 100 cases, 50 of which resulted in deaths:  n  lt - 100 x  lt - 50 s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbinom x, size   n, prob   s , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    binomial likelihood        this shows that a point estimate  the maximum likelihood estimate  would be 0.5, which of course makes sense. something important to consider here is the amount of data we have observed. since we have a good amount of observations, the likelihood is fairly narrow. this means that there is a relatively small range of values for  p  for which the data we observed would be likely to occur.  now, imagine if we had only 10 cases, 5 of which resulted in deaths:  x  lt - 5 n  lt - 10 s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbinom x, size   n, prob   s , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    binomial likelihood        when we do not have much information, the likelihood is quite broad, indicating that the data would be fairly likely for a wide range of values for  p .  it can be helpful in cases like this to incorporate a prior, or how likely we think different parameter values are, based on our existing knowledge. for example, imagine that we knew that the distribution of mortality rates across all known human diseases looked something like this:  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  plot   s, dbeta s, 32, 64 , type  l ,  xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    proportion of diseases        this is a beta prior with   alpha 32  and   beta 64 , i.e.,   p  sim  text beta  32, 64  . we might want to use this prior information to guide our inferences about the mortality rate of a new disease for which we have very little information. we can combine this prior information with the likelihoods we have already plotted. if you want details about how this is done, one great starting point is this blog by david robinson. basically, the posterior distribution over our parameters is a beta distribution. for parameters we take the   alpha  of our prior and add  x , and take the   beta  of our prior and add  n-x .  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  n  lt - 100 x  lt - 50 plot   s, dbeta s, shape1   32   x, shape2   64   n - x ,   type  l , xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    posterior density        as you can see, this prior information  pulls  our estimates downwards towards the distribution of existing mortality rates. however, if we had strong enough evidence  for example, thousands of infections and deaths  we could still produce an estimate outside of where the prior distribution is concentrated. when we have a small amount of data, a prior can be particularly helpful to avoid results that are purely the result of sampling noise - for example, imagine the first 10 people with a disease happen to die, and the next 90 survive. the estimate after 10 people would be 100 , which is extremely unlikely, given what we have seen about human disease in the past.  s  lt - seq 0, 1, length.out 1000  n  lt - 10 x  lt - 5 plot   s, dbeta s, shape1   32   x, shape2   64   n - x ,  type  l , xlab    mortality rate  p  , ylab    posterior density        when we have very little data, this prior information really shrinks our estimates towards what we believe is a reasonable estimate of mortality, given what we have observed in the past about other diseases.  you can continually update this posterior distribution as new data comes in by adding deaths to the   alpha  parameter and survivals to the   beta  parameter of the beta distribution.  this is all just general  i have no real expertise in disease modelling. none of the parameters values i have chosen have any basis in reality. "
"the speed of transmission is an important point of difference between the two viruses. influenza has a shorter median incubation period  the time from infection to appearance of symptoms  and a shorter serial interval  the time between successive cases  than covid-19 virus. the serial interval for covid-19 virus is estimated to be 5-6 days, while for influenza virus, the serial interval is 3 days. this means that influenza can spread faster than covid-19. further, transmission in the first 3-5 days of illness, or potentially pre-symptomatic transmission -transmission of the virus before the appearance of symptoms - is a major driver of transmission for influenza. in contrast, while we are learning that there are people who can shed covid-19 virus 24-48 hours prior to symptom onset, at present, this does not appear to be a major driver of transmission. the reproductive number - the number of secondary infections generated from one infected individual - is understood to be between 2 and 2.5 for covid-19 virus, higher than for influenza. however, estimates for both covid-19 and influenza viruses are very context and time-specific, making direct comparisons more difficult. children are important drivers of influenza virus transmission in the community. for covid-19 virus, initial data indicates that children are less affected than adults and that clinical attack rates in the 0-19 age group are low. further preliminary data from household transmission studies in china suggest that children are infected from adults, rather than vice versa.while the range of symptoms for the two viruses is similar, the fraction with severe disease appears to be different. for covid-19, data to date suggest that 80  of infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15  are severe infection, requiring oxygen and 5  are critical infections, requiring ventilation. these fractions of severe and critical infection would be higher than what is observed for influenza infection. those most at risk for severe influenza infection are children, pregnant women, elderly, those with underlying chronic medical conditions and those who are immunosuppressed. for covid-19, our current understanding is that older age and underlying conditions increase the risk for severe infection.mortality for covid-19 appears higher than for influenza, especially seasonal influenza. while the true mortality of covid-19 will take some time to fully understand, the data we have so far indicate that the crude mortality ratio  the number of reported deaths divided by the reported cases  is between 3-4 , the infection mortality rate  the number of reported deaths divided by the number of infections  will be lower. for seasonal influenza, mortality is usually well below 0.1 . however, mortality is to a large extent determined by access to and quality of health care."
"your question is related with mine:  we will never know how many individuals have been infected, we can only count the cases that have been diagnosed and these are those who are died or have been hospitalized or have visited the doctor.  so it could be possible that 80   of a population is infected but only 50  are diagnosed and as we had also a medial hype in 2009 it is really surprising that the spread trend of h1n1 2009 in argentina was so low:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2009 flu pandemic by country  i do not know where from merkel has her information ... "
"if you do not want to become pregnant, you should start or continue to use your contraceptive method of choice. you may be able to access information and contraceptive services from a healthcare provider by phone or online. if you cannot access these services you may opt for a method that is available without a prescription  such as condoms, spermicides, diaphragm, pills, or emergency contraceptive pills  from a nearby pharmacy or drug shop."
"coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19."
this is primarily to allow nationalisation of shale oil. 
"i have not heard about any country denying entry or quarantining all travellers from affected areas. isolation  at home  is recommended for people who have been in the area and present relevant symptoms. refusing entry wholesale would be a hugely disruptive and largely self-defeating measure: it encourages people to lie, could spread the disease further by making potentially contagious victims stay longer in a public place -- the airport -- and through another international flight, would make  crucial  collaboration with airlines or affected countries a lot more difficult.  extending it to all travellers from china  since you do not want to rely on people self-reported itinerary  would be pure madness  and there are already cases reported in japan and the us... so you might as well shut down international air travel entirely . it also raises the question of returning nationals or third-country citizens, who cannot easily be refused entry and put back on a plane to the affected area.  consequently, the question is not designed to catch people who try to defeat screening but to inform people who might not otherwise understand they are at risk and make sure they realize this information is relevant. it is more efficient than asking every passenger verbally and helps officials respond appropriately in situations where oral communication might be more difficult. it is also potentially a database you can come back to for contact tracing. "
"it is often said that a common cold can be caused by more than 200 different  specific viruses   rhinovirus, influenza virus... , which suggests 200 virus species, but there are other levels of categorization of viruses  families, genera,  types,  etc. , so this can be a bit of apples and oranges situation, but in any case, 200 specific viruses does not mean 200 strains.    more than 200 different viruses are known to cause the symptoms of  the common cold.  national institute of health     the common cold is an upper respiratory infection that is caused by  several families of viruses. within these virus families, more  than 200 specific viruses that can cause the common cold have been  identified. the virus family that causes the most colds is called  rhinovirus. rhinoviruses cause up to 40  of colds, and this virus  family has at least 100 distinct virus types in its group. other  important upper respiratory virus families are named coronavirus,  adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus. since so many viruses can  cause cold symptoms, development of a vaccine for the common cold has  not been possible.  harvard medical school    each species of a virus can further appear as different strains.    in biology, a strain is a low-level taxonomic rank used at the  intraspecific level  within a species .  wikipedia    for example, all different strains of influenza virus will be still called influenza virus and the detailed name will be used only for laboratory/research purposes, not for the  public.      every year different strains of influenza virus appear, so every year a new vaccine targeted to those strains needs to be developed to be effective. "
"that depends on your underlying health. coronaviruses are not uncommon -- you have almost certainly had several during your lifetime, and at worst you might have called in sick with a common cold. and even if you contract this particular coronavirus, you may show few if any signs. but if your health is poor already -- especially your respiratory system -- this virus is more troubling. many of those who have succumbed have been older, and young children may be particularly susceptible as well. those who become ill will have problems in their upper respiratory tract  those who become severely ill will have problems in the lower respiratory tract, and those can lead to really serious health concerns like pneumonia and bronchitis."
"based on information about this novel coronavirus thus far, it seems unlikely that covid-19 can be transmitted through food - additional investigation is needed."
"there is no evidence from the outbreak that eating garlic, sipping water every 15 minutes or taking vitamin c will protect people from the new coronavirus. same goes for using essential oils, colloidal silver and steroids.  some posts have suggested that putting sesame oil on your body or spraying yourself with alcohol or chlorine will kill the virus. that is also false."
"no, hotez says. as far as we know, it is not a mosquito-transmitted virus."
"in the most recent polls i found  and there are a helluva lot of polls on coronavirus in the us  from march 26:    about seven-in-ten adults  71   say that to address the coronavirus, it is necessary to require most businesses other than grocery stores or pharmacies to close. a larger share of democrats and democratic-leaning independents  81   than republicans and gop leaners  61   view this requirement as necessary.   so most are  now  approving of not-business-as-usual measures to combat the epidemic. actually, a bit later, this pew poll details the public response to a few more specific measures, although this is aftery had been anounced/implemented:    as some  polling  pundits predicted a week ago after commenting on those old-by-now polls  of march 20 or so :    pew shows that 59  of democrats and democratic-leaning independents say the  outbreak is a major threat to the health of the u.s. population as a whole,  while only 33  of republicans and republican leaners agree.    it is certainly possible that this significant partisan gap in views of the coronavirus situation will narrow in the weeks ahead. partisans take cues from the statements of their leaders, and trump and other republican politicians initially were publicly skeptical of the significance of the virus, in some instances claiming that it reflected a partisan effort by democrats and  the media  to criticize trump. now, trump and his allies have begun to move away from that previous posture and are at the forefront of proclaiming the seriousness of the crisis. as media observers have noted, this in turn has brought about shifts in the tone of the coverage by fox news, and these shifts may narrow the partisanship gap in the days and weeks to come if rank-and-file republicans follow the cues given by their favored thought leaders.  "
"  the class in question is a not a major or graduation requirement   assuming you want to go to graduate school in a topic closely related to your major, taking one unrelated course pass/fail will not matter under normal circumstances. it will matter even less because everybody knows students are being encouraged to take classes pass/fail during the pandemic. "
"in the u.s., ages range from an infant less than one year old to people intheir 90s, according to state and local health departments.the illinois department of public health said saturday that  an infantcoronavirus patient younger than one yearold  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/28/coronavirus-update-trump-signs-stimulus-disney-parks-close-indefinitely/2928057001/  in chicagohad died. an investigation was underway to determine the cause of death. there has never before been a death associated with covid-19 in an infant, department director dr. ngozi ezike said.this week health officials also reported that a  17-year-old teen in neworleans  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/26/coronavirus-live-updates-senate-stimulus-us-deaths-donald-trump/5079447002/  died aftercontracting the virus. and a  2-month-old innashville  http://www.tennessean.com/story/news/local/2020/03/26/2-month-old-tests-positive-coronavirus-nashville-tennessee/2915705001/  who testedpositive for the virus could be the youngest patient in the nation, officialssay.however, this range is not conclusive because health officials have notreleased the specific ages of several other patients, and new deaths are beingreported each day."
"no. disposable medical face masks are intended for a single use only. after use they should be removed using appropriate techniques  i.e. do no touch the front, remove by pulling the elastic ear straps or laces from behind  and disposed of immediately in an infectious waste bin with a lid, followed by hand hygiene. for more information on using masks in the context of the ncov outbreak, click here."
"to my knowledge, yes. a partial list of recently emerged/emerging viral diseases  i certainly could have missed some , with probable reservoir hosts:   chikungunya   birds, rodents  coronaviruses  sars  bats , mers  camels , covid-19     bats    pangolins      ebola and other filoviruses  marburg :  bats   hendra, nipah  bats  ross river virus   various mammals  hiv  primates  influenza  h1n1, avian   birds/pigs  monkeypox  monkeys, duh  also rodents  west nile virus   birds  zika      a wide range of animals in west africa     starred examples are vector-borne  so perhaps of slightly lower concern - might not fit your criterion of  capable of causing a global pandemic  .  omitted:    older zoonotic viruses  rabies, dengue, hepatitis, ...  non-viral zoonoses  malaria, plague, anthrax    a list of zoonoses  another from us cdc  more generally, the only other place an emerging virus could come from would be from mutation or recombination of existing human viruses. i am not aware of such an example. "
"this is a bit late, but for others doing the same. the main things to monitor in new/stray cats are appetite, vomition, lethargy, runny poops, struggling or inability to urinate and breathing and eye problems. common diseases/conditions that hit suddenly includes feline herpiesvirus  eyes, mouth, lungs , feline corona virus  appetite, diarrhoea , stress  urination problems .  as a stray you unfortunately do not know the history and diseases like feline leukaemia  felv  and feline aids  fiv  is a definitely a possibility, even if they are vaccinated, but for example not tested. these diseases can take months to show clinical signs  weight loss, inappetance, lethargy, fever, other diseases, etc. etc.  "
"most of the covid-19 deaths in washington involve a single nursing home, where the virus spread widely before being detected.  the patients at that facility are in a high-risk category for this disease due to their advanced age  there is no similar cluster of cases at a nursing facility elsewhere in the us, therefore it is not surprising that the mortality rate is quite different so far.  there is speculation that there are far more undiagnosed cases in washington, many of which would be mild cases. given issues and limitations with testing, it is difficult to know what the true rate is. "
"how deadly is it  that will not be known until large studies are done to test big groups of people to see how many have been infected and with or without symptoms. scientists have estimated the fatality rate from less than 1  to as high as 4  among cases diagnosed so far, depending on location. flu kills about 0.1  of those it infects, so the new virus seems about 10 times more lethal, the national institutes of health is dr. anthony fauci told congress last week. the death rate has been higher among people with other health problems -- more than 10  for those with heart disease, for example. in the us, 30 million have diabetes, more than 70 million are obese and nearly 80 million have high blood pressure."
"about 35 companies and academic institutions are racing to create such a vaccine, at least four of which already have candidates they have been testing in animals. the first of these has begun testing in seattle. however, even if the trials prove the experimental vaccine is safe and effective, it will still be many months before it can be mass-produced and distributed."
"at this time it is best to stay home, self isolate and only go out if you really need to.   in some countries the number of infected people is lower, or already going down, as in the first area that had been infected, but that is because of containment and isolation measures. it is expected that a new or second wave will come, again leading to restrictions. and likely no country in the world will escape while accepting people to visit or move in.   if you travel from the uk to somewhere else in the world, there is a huge risk of you spreading the virus. that will be for the for the next few months at least, but more likely for at least a year, or even a few years.  this is the negative view, but it is realistic.    for now there are huge travel restrictions, to avoid spreading the virus but also not to get people stuck far from home in a country where they do not have a support structure and an established life. that might have changed by summer but it may also stay longer, nobody can predict things like that at the moment. "
"the definition of mortality rate that you have given does not match any practical definition i am familiar with.   when people talk about the mortality rate of a disease, what they usually mean is the case fatality rate or the death-to-case ratio, which is simply defined as nd / ni, where nd is the number of deaths attributed to the disease over a given time period and ni is the total number of new cases of the disease observed during the same time period. by this definition, the current case fatality rate of 2019-ncov according to your quoted figures is 362 / 17491     2.07 .   the tracker seems to have been updated since you asked your question, and now lists a total of 20679 confirmed cases and 427 deaths, for a cfr of 427 / 20679     2.06 .      as a theoretical definition of the mortality rate in the long run, when all infected patients have either died or recovered, it can sort of make sense. but then it becomes equivalent to the usual definition of the case fatality rate.    to compare this with your definition of  mortality rate   as nd /  nd   nr , where nr is the number of individuals who have recovered from the disease , we need to start by observing that there is no single universal and unambiguous definition of what  recovering from a disease  means. commonly used definitions tend to be something like  no symptoms for x days  and/or  viral load below n particles per ml for x days  or simply  whenever a doctor declares that you are healthy again and lets you out of the hospital .  now, let is say that we are using a  somewhat  objective definition of recovery like  no detectable symptoms for two days . the first observation is that any epidemic first observed less than two days ago would, according to your definition, inevitably have a mortality rate of 100  simply because none of the people infected so far would have had time to be considered definitely recovered yet.  that is assuming that at least one person had died from the infection  otherwise both the numerator and the denominator would be zero, and the rate thus undefined.   further, even after some of the earliest cases have been symptom-free long enough to be counted as recovered, your definition would still yield a highly upwards biased estimate of the  true  long-term fatality rate during the early phase of the epidemic, when the number of new cases per day is still increasing. this is because, for most infectious diseases, any deaths typically occur when the disease is at its most severe state, whereas those who survive the disease will then experience a gradual decline in symptoms as their immune system succeeds in halting and reversing the progress of the infection.    for an illustrative example, let is consider a hypothetical disease with a theoretical 1  long-term average cfr -- that is to say, exactly 1  of all  recognizably  infected patients will die of the disease. let is further assume that this disease typically takes two days to progress from the initial onset of recognizable symptoms to the state of maximum severity, which is when most of the deaths occur. after this, assuming that the patient survives, the symptoms gradually decline over the following three days. as remission is possible  but rare , doctors will generally consider a patient recovered only after showing no symptoms for at least two days. thus, a typical case would progress as follows:    onset of symptoms - increasing symptoms  2 days  - peak severity - declining symptoms  3 days  - no symptoms - observation  2 days  - officially recovered  total time: approx. 7 days from onset    or, for the 1  of patients for whom the disease is fatal:    onset of symptoms - increasing symptoms  2 days  - death  total time: approx. 2 days from onset    now, let is assume that, during the early period of an epidemic when the infection is still spreading exponentially, the number of new cases increases by a factor of 10 every three days. thus, during this period, the number of new cases, recoveries and deaths per day might grow approximately as follows  assuming for the sake of the example that exactly 1 , rounded down, of the patients diagnosed on each day will die two days later :     cases   recovered   deaths        day   new   total   new   total   new   total   nd / ni   nd/ nd nr    ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --------- ------------   1   1   1   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    2   2   3   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    3   5   8   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    4   10   18   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    5   20   38   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    6   50   88   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    7   100   188   0   0   0   0   0.00    n/a    8   200   388   1   1   0   0   0.00    0.0     9   500   888   2   3   1   1   0.11    25.0     10   1000   1888   5   8   2   3   0.16    27.3     11   2000   3888   10   18   5   8   0.21    30.8     12   5000   8888   20   38   10   18   0.20    32.1      as you can see from the table above, naively calculating the case fatality rate as  total number of deaths  /  total number of cases  during this exponential growth period does underestimate the true long-term cfr by a factor of  in this case  about 5 due to the two-day lag time between infection and death. on the other hand, using your formula of  total deaths  /  total deaths   recovered  would overestimate the true cfr by a factor of about 30   meanwhile, let is assume that, after the first 12 days, the growth of the epidemic saturates at 10,000 new cases per day. now the total numbers will look like this:     cases   recovered   deaths        day   new   total   new   total   new   total   nd / ni   nd/ nd nr    ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --------- ------------   13   10000   18888   50   88   20   38   0.20    30.2     14   10000   28888   99   187   50   88   0.30    32.0     15   10000   38888   198   385   100   188   0.48    32.8     16   10000   48888   495   880   100   288   0.59    24.7     17   10000   58888   990   1870   100   388   0.66    17.2     18   10000   68888   1980   3850   100   488   0.71    11.2     19   10000   78888   4950   8800   100   588   0.74    6.3     20   10000   88888   9900   18700   100   688   0.77    3.5     21   10000   98888   9900   28600   100   788   0.80    2.7      as you can see, the two measures of mortality rate do eventually start converging as the growth of the epidemic slows down. in fact, in the long run, as the majority of patients either recover or die, they do both end up converging to the  true  long-term case fatality rate of 1 . but by then, the epidemic will be basically over.  there are various ways to obtain a more accurate estimate of the long-term fatality rate even during the early exponential growth phase of an epidemic. one such method would be to look at the outcomes of a single cohort of patients diagnosed at the same time. for our hypothetical example epidemic, looking e.g. at just the 1000 patients diagnosed on day 10, we could get an accurate estimate of the cfr by day 12 simply by dividing the 10 deaths within that cohort by the total number of patients in the cohort. furthermore, observing multiple cohorts would give us a pretty good idea of how long after diagnosis we would need to wait before the estimated case fatality rate for each cohort gets close to its final true value.  unfortunately carrying out this kind of cohort analysis for 2019-ncov would require more detailed information than the tracker you have linked to provides. even the time series spreadsheet the tracker links to does not directly provide such detailed cohort data, although it might be possible to obtain better estimates from it by making some more or less reasonable assumptions about the typical progress of the disease.    addendum: a few preliminary cohort studies of the kind i describe above do appear to have already been published for 2019-ncov.  in particular,  a novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern  by wang et al. and  clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in wuhan, china  by huang et al., both published on january 24 in the lancet, note that, out of the first 41 patients diagnosed with 2019-ncov before jan 2, 2020 in wuhan, six had died  and 28 had been discharged, leaving seven hospitalized  by jan 22, giving a case fatality rate of 14.6  in this cohort.  however, they do advise treating this figure with due caution, noting a number of reasons  besides just the small number of cases examined  why it may not fully reflect the eventual long-term cfr:     however, both of these  cfr  estimates  of 14.6  from the 41 patient cohort and of 2.9  from all 835 cases confirmed at the time of writing  should be treated with great caution because not all patients have concluded their illness  ie, recovered or died  and the true number of infections and full disease spectrum are unknown. importantly, in emerging viral infection outbreaks the case-fatality ratio is often overestimated in the early stages because case detection is highly biased towards the more severe cases. as further data on the spectrum of mild or asymptomatic infection becomes available, one case of which was documented by chan and colleagues, the case-fatality ratio is likely to decrease.    there is also a later paper titled  epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in wuhan, china: a descriptive study  by chen et al., published on jan 30, that examines a cohort of 99 patients diagnosed between jan 1 to jan 20 and reports a cfr of 11  within this cohort. however, the study only followed these patients up to jan 25, by which time more than half of them  57 out of 99  still remained hospitalized. "
"you can not, said dr. james phillips, chief of disaster and operational medicine at george washington university hospital.   we are so far behind on testing, there is only one way we can be certain not to transmit the virus and be certain not to get it ourselves: we need to start treating every person as though they have this,   phillips said.    and everyone needs to treat us like we have it, and socially distance ourselves in that manner. because until we have  enough  testing, we do not know who has this. and we are not sure when they start spreading it.    that is why it is so critical to avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet away from others, wash or disinfect your hands, and stop touching your face."
"all modern methods of contraception help to prevent pregnancy. women and their partners can choose any modern contraceptive method that is acceptable to and safe for them. the best method of contraception is the one that works well for you.there is a wide variety of modern methods, one of which may suit you best. for more information see here. condoms, when they are used consistently and correctly, are the only method of contraception that help to prevent unintended pregnancy and protect against sexually transmitted infections, including hiv. they can be used together with other methods of contraception to protect against both unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.emergency contraceptive pills can prevent up to 95  of pregnancies when taken within 5 days after intercourse, and they can be taken by anyone with or without a health condition"
"coronaviruses are a group of viruses. according to the wiki, coronaviruses were discovered in the 1960s. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/coronavirus  so people could have searched for  coronavirus  long before the current outbreak. case in point, google trends for year 2018:    and here for reference google ngram, indeed showing the term first appeared in the 1960s:   "
"i can not give an authoritative answer on this because my phd work was based on mrna delivery using peptides instead of lipids, but many of the concepts are the same. i also do not have time to provide proper citations, but this is probably too much for a comment.  anyway, mrna is a very fragile molecule, it can be broken down extremely quickly in the blood by serum nucleases. therefore we must protect the mrna by mixing it with some other chemical, in this case a mixture of positively charged lipids. the positively charged lipids are attracted to the negatively charged phosphate backbone of the mrna, and form a nanoparticle trapping the mrna inside and hiding it from the nucleases. the lipids are often, but not always, pegylated, which means that a molecule of polyethylene glycol  peg  is attached to the lipid. the peg groups form a layer on the outer surface of the nanoparticle that helps prevent protein binding.  these mrna lipid nanoparticles are then injected into a patient. this will probably be an intramuscular injection so that the particles are most likely to be taken up by muscle cells. the exact mechanism explaining why lipid nanoparticles are attracted to cells is not entirely clear, but it is likely a combination of electrostatic attraction between the positively charged nanoparticle and the negatively charged cell membrane and proteins that bind to the nanoparticle and are then recognized by receptors on the cell surface.  after the particle is taken up by a cell it is usually trapped inside a membrane-bound structure called an endosome. as the endosome matures it is acidified, and as the ph drops from about 7 to about 5.5 the nanoparticle is disrupted. the lipids that made up the nanoparticle can merge with the lipids that make up the endosomal membrane, disrupting that membrane and breaking open the endosome, allowing the mrna to escape into the cytoplasm.  once in the cytoplasm the mrna will find a ribosome and produce protein. just like you said, the protein in this case will be membrane bound and expressed on the outer surface of the cells for eventual immune recognition. "
"for countries not currently known to be experiencing community transmission of covid-19, the priority consideration will be whether the planned mass gathering event substantially increases the risk of the virus entering the country and becoming established, as well as the risk for participants to importing infection back to their home country and further increasing global spread. in making this assessment, the organizers and their national or local health authorities should recognize that the risk of imported cases of covid-19 is naturally linked to international travel. they should also recognize that it is neither realistic or desirable to aim for zero risk. when organizers and health authorities are determining whether to hold a mass gathering, they should determine what is an acceptable risk and what additional measures should be implemented to mitigate the risks.for countries where covid-19 has already started to spread in the community, key consideration will be: aiming at containing or at least slowing down the spread of the virus in the local community/country.preventing participants from other countries being infected with covid-19 in each case the risk should be considered in the context of the known features of covid-19, its severity, its transmissibility and the effectiveness of measures to prevent or reduce transmission. the strain already placed on the local health system in responding to covid-19 outbreak s , and the additional strain the mass gathering might place on the system also need to be taken into account.you can find more advice on what to look at in the who document key planning recommendations for mass gatherings in the context of the current covid-19 outbreak of 14 february 2020. see: http://www.who.int/publications-detail/key-planning-recommendations-for-mass-gatherings-in-the-context-of-the-current-covid-19-outbreak"
"the united states has moved the federal tax-filing deadline to july 15, giving americans an additional three months to file their income tax returns. some states are also making changes. the american institute of certified public accountants is tracking those  on its website  http://www.aicpa.org/content/dam/aicpa/advocacy/tax/downloadabledocuments/coronavirus- state-filing-relief.pdf ."
"as physical distancing recommendations have evolved, it has become clear that authorities do not want anyone to get close to anyone from outside their household unless absolutely necessary.   stay home  has become the refrain from political and public health leaders seeking to flatten the curve of covid-19 infectiuons.   physical distancing is proven to be one of the most effective ways to reduce the spread of illness during an outbreak,  phac says on its website, which recommends that all canadians avoid  non-essential  gatherings.  gorfinkel said people should aim to avoid all unnecessary contact with individuals to prevent further spread in their communities.   stop the spread because so many people have mild symptoms. that is the problem,  she said.  they are the source where the majority of cases are going to come from. "
"i can only speak of drug design  and even then i am terrible at turning down the jargon .  in the case of drug design, this is pretty much plan c. namely, none of compounds that entered clinical trial at the start of the year work  let is call this plan a  and none of the vaccines that are entering now clinical trial work  let is call this plan b although vaccination prevents so is a better solution . clinical trials take a lot time as they need to be thorough  cf. the infamous thalidomide from the days with more lax testing   there are several bottlenecks in drug design. these are technical based on our imperfect understanding of things, which results in less than ideal models. cpu time is not really an issue. empirical validation is required at many steps along the way. this is greatly increased by automation. the xchem team at diamond light source have done a fragment-screening against the sars-cov-2 main protease at an insane pace: things are changing fast   drug screen  there are many ways to make a drug. in one way, a test system was set up  a reporter assay  that gives you a measurable read-out, say mm of clearance of bacteria on a petri dish  viability  around a cellulose dish soaked in different separated natural extracts --and you might find that penicillium chrysogenum has a compound of interest. what you are doing is drug screen. screening a large panel of compounds  of varying purity  does not necessarily require knowing the protein target.  rational drug design  fast forward to this decade and it becomes possible to predict the free energy release upon binding of a small molecule against a protein --mostly.  this requires a solved 3d structure of the protein by x-ray crystallography. crystallising a protein is a tricky business, as a pure protein sample has to come out of solution in a folded form to form a neat lattice as opposed to just making unfolded gunk. what salt conditions work  anyone is guess. some have done deep learning on it, but the best solution is to have a robot try a very large range of combinations.  once you have a protein structure you can predict what fits into the part that you want to target, say an active site or an interface. this is not done by simple cartesian geometric shape fitting like lego bricks as there are many molecular forces involved. so a mathematical model of these forces is made, called a force field. many have been made, a lot of study has gone into these, but they are not perfect. it is all made worse by the fact that we cannot really model water properly --most models use a proxy  implicit solvent  or use non-polarisable water. this is all while made worse by the fact that a protein is not static but wobbles  following the same mathematical models . so a ligand does not slot in really like a key in a lock, but has an induced fit. modelling all this is accurately is problematic, but one can still try: calculating where exactly a ligand binds to a protein is called for which one gets energy difference upon binding. and one can try an inordinate amount of small molecules --zinc db contains 230 million purchasable compounds. this is called a virtual screen. one can even start with the natural substrate and  weaponise it  by adding chemical groups that do a chemical reaction that breaks the protein. however, a metabolite is very different from a drug  cf. lipinski is rule of five  as the latter must cross membranes etc. but generally the accuracy is not great without multiple steps of empirical validation.  to improve the results from a virtual screen the most common approach is to do a fragment screen to guide it. this is to automatedly soak protein crystals with a large library of small compounds and see which crystal contains a bound hit. the hits can be expanded into bigger fragments in a virtual screens and the short list of compounds tested  these are not cheap  by soaking and crystallising again. in the case of covid19 virus, the cool thing is that this whole process is open in the aforementioned current campaign  diamond is a government owned synchrotron and not a big pharma . what is really nice about this is that for the second cycle comp-chemists from everywhere have done their own guided virtual screen and have submit compounds  which you can see publicly .  it should be said that drug screens that are not rational design are still a thing. the recent antibiotic-discovering deep-learning paper in cell 6 is such an example, although it should be said that it was a feat not only in ai but also in automated empirical testing.  future  automation via better and open software will definitely improve. with a small drive possibly from the dissemination of easy to use and to code off-the-shelf electronics, such as rasperry pis or arduinos. but mainly with more complex machines such as the opentron system  a python-controlled robot .  but indubitably where the greatest improvement can come is better mathematical models. possibly even with deep learning. after all researches were amused last year-ish  2018 competition  when deepmind  won  the protein 3d structure  fold  modelling competition  casp13  and there have definitely been some really nice results in the field of docking with hybrid models. so deep-learning may still surprise us yet...  lastly, open science will be a strong driver: using premade packages or tools on github and code snippets from stackoverflow etc. will accelerate these. "
"tl dr: you can, possibly, in some places, but it may not be a great idea.  whether it is legal depends on the bundesland  state  -- to put it simply, the federal government has no authority in these matters, and each state put down their own rules. there are federal rules for entry into germany, but these do not apply as you are already in the country.  example rules  for example: in saarland they implemented a lockdown  possibly due to their proximity to the heavy-hit regions of france : you may only leave your home due to  important reasons . on the other hand rheinland-pfalz has a  contact prohibition , which means that you can free to go wherever you want, as long as you are with no more than one other person.   also, individual cities have the right to be more restrictive.  things change  case numbers will rise in germany and regulations may become more strict at any moment. in which case it may be difficult for you to go back home  also: do not count on any restrictions being lifted until well after easter -- at best   infrastructure is shut down  however, even in rheinland-pfalz accommodations are not open for touristic purposes. this will include campgrounds.  wild  camping is only regulated by the lander, but generally there will be restrictions, and camping spots may be cordoned off.   also, most public services that are useful for travellers are also shut down.  enforcement  it is difficult to say how things will be enforced. generally there is no formal requirements in germany, unlike in italy or france. they will still stop and fine you if you blatantly flout the rules. my guess is that nobody will go and check for wild camping in the middle of nowhere, but they may check popular camping spots to make sure people do not congregate there.  responsibility  cycling alone is not really an  additional  risk, as long as you do not meet people. however, the question is if it is going to be a fun trip if you   can not go in places like the saarland, keep to yourself all the time, have to find a remote spot to pitch your tent each night, and have no access to sanitary facilities, have to bring/buy and cook your own food  there will be no restaurants .   plus, germany is a densely populated country -- it will be hard to really be alone. and as soon as more than one person pitches their tent in one place, the police will likely see that as a  congregation  and break it up.   in all honesty, it is probably a better idea to stay put in one place. if the local laws allow it, you can still go cycling and return to your home each night. "
"the range of symptoms for people infected with sars-cov-2 are extreme. there are reports of asymptomatic children with ct scans showing viral pneumonia.    among the paediatric patients in our study, just under a third were asymptomatic. moreover, a fifth had pneumonia only and needed radiographic examination to be identified.   with respect to the question of whether one can have ongoing pneumonic process without a fever, then yes, that is possible.  case 5 in the link below presented only with a runny nose and sore throat. fever is not mentioned as it is in the other cases so one assumes she was not febrile. but ct scan 3 days later showed ground-glass opacities. her throat swab was positive by pcr for sars-cov-2.  http://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/piis1473-3099 20 30198-5/fulltext  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/all.14289 "
"the accepted knowledge is that boiling water for 1 minute kills viruses. however, that is not necessary for sars-cov-2. any food you eat is going to be cooked for longer than a minute, and packaging can left for a couple of days for the virus to inactivate naturally.    the standard recommendation for boiling water is a full rolling boil for one minute and cool before use. the term rolling boil facilitates communication and assures that an effective pasteurization temperature is reached to kill or inactivate waterborne pathogens. some agencies recommend boiling for longer periods, but this extra time is not necessary and can cause unnecessary power demand and increase safety concerns.   for cardboard boxes:    on cardboard, no viable sars-cov-2 was measured after 24 hours   and on plastics/stainless steel    sars-cov-2 was more stable on plastic and stainless steel than on copper and cardboard, and viable virus was detected up to 72 hours after application to these surfaces  figure 1a , although the virus titer was greatly reduced  from 103.7 to 100.6 tcid50 per milliliter of medium after 72 hours on plastic and from 103.7 to 100.6 tcid50 per milliliter after 48 hours on stainless steel .   so, it can last for 72 hours at least though at greatly diminished amounts of viable virus. so, use soap/water to wipe these surfaces down. soap disrupts the virus capsule, and also forms a surfactant around the virus so it can be dislodged from surfaces. some people do recommend you wash your vegetables of unknown provenance in soap and water.   http://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/water/drinking/boilwater/response information public health professional.htm  http://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/nejmc2004973 "
"yes. it may be difficult however, to access all the methods of contraception that are normally available in your country due to restrictions on movement, lack of supply, as well as increased demands on health providers and services. if you have a pre-existing health condition, consult a provider to find out what options suit you best, and which are available and feasible. seek advice and information from your health provider and consider using methods that do not have medical restrictions like minipills, condoms, fertility awareness-based methods, diaphragm, spermicides or lactational amenorrhea if you are exclusively breastfeeding."
"while there are a number of therapeutics currently in clinical trials in china and more than 20 vaccines in development for covid-19, there are currently no licensed vaccines or therapeutics for covid-19. in contrast, antivirals and vaccines available for influenza. while the influenza vaccine is not effective against covid-19 virus, it is highly recommended to get vaccinated each year to prevent influenza infection."
"yes, you can transit without a visa at haneda airport, if your connection time between flights is less than 72 hours.  if you have not been to any of the areas affected by covid-19 then you may also be able to get a shore pass so that you can enter japan and stay landside during your layover.  timatic, the database which airlines use to verify passenger travel documents, states in part:    visa required, except for passengers transiting through tokyo   hnd  or osaka  kix  with a confirmed onward ticket for a  flight to a third country within 72 hours. they must stay in  the international transit area of the airport and have  documents required for the next destination.     visa required, except for passengers with a passport and a  confirmed onward ticket to a third country within 72 hours can  obtain a shore pass on arrival if there are no connecting  flights on the same calendar day. they must:      have documents required for the next destination  and  have proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay  and   arrive at and depart from an airport or seaport located  within the same group below.  group a:  airports: narita  nrt , haneda  hnd , nagoya  ngo , niigata   kij , komatsu  kmq  and yokota  oko .  seaports: tokyo, yokohama, niigata and nagoya.      covid-19 entry restrictions omitted as these change frequently. at this time i do not recommend trying to get a shore pass as people entering japan from the usa are being asked to self-quarantine for 14 days.  "
"can i go out in my vehicle to pick up someone who is stranded somewhere  yes, you can but only if the person concerned is not stranded outside the city limits"
"for most people, covid-19 causes mild respiratory illness. common symptoms are fever, shortness of breath and coughing. some people also get a runny nose or muscle aches, although those are far less common. for some people, the disease can progress to pneumonia, and it usually gets worse in the second week. estimates have varied, but the experience in china suggests the death rate may be about 1 per cent, although the who has put it slightly higher. but chances of dying depend significantly on age and state of health -- the very young rarely seem to be affected at all, while the death rate in the elderly is much higher, about 15 per cent. people with comorbidities such as heart or lung conditions, or diabetes, have a higher risk of death."
"at this time  17-march-2020  the state of new hampshire has not found evidence of community transmission of the virus, and all 13 cases are associated with overseas travel.  you have travelled in from overseas where there is community transmission so the possibility is much higher that you have been infected. the infected in the pre-symptomatic phase are still highly contagious spreading virus just by breathing based on small studies so far.  once community transmission is detected then it may be too late to start isolating people from out of state, and the whole state may need to go into self isolation as was done in china.  http://patch.com/new-hampshire/concord-nh/nh-officials-order-all-schools-be-shuttered-due-covid-19 "
"regarding remote conferences, these have been successful. often the motivating factor has been mitigating climate impact. for example, yale climate connections wrote an article giving advice for running virtual conferences. author sara peach presents three kinds of virtual conferencing, all of which have been done successfully:    remote presentations in a traditional conference format. if people choose to not travel, they can still remote in or follow the session on social media.  example: agu  hub-based conference, where people gather in regional clusters. each hub has some of its own content but are able to watch each other is presentations.  example: international conference on music perception and cognition  an entirely remote conference, where people record and upload videos of presentations and conferencegoers have weeks to ask questions and interact.  example: a nearly carbon-neutral conference model    i will add that an entirely virtual synchronous conference has also been done successfully. one example is nacada, the global community for academic advising, which ran a 24-hour live-streaming virtual conference.   the mixed-conference or hub models may or may not be feasible, since they would still involve people gathering in some models, and you are not sure yet whether that will be feasible on any scale. also, developing regional hubs would take time you do not have. thus, if you decide to go entirely virtual, a synchronous-with-live-streaming conference and a asynchronous recorded approach have been done, and the resources linked should provide a way to start researching or planning that model. i also advise contacting your own it department about the possibility.  "
" the short answer is apparently, yes, and better than we thought,  schaffner said.    after china imposed strict quarantine and lockdown measures in hard-hit hubei province, new cases of covid-19 appeared to decline, schaffner explained.    more: what life is like under novel coronavirus quarantine  it is too soon to know the full effect of that quarantine, which is essentially an unprecedented public health experiment. and imposing strict quarantine measures on an entire community may not be replicable outside of china.    italy has locked down its entire population of 60 million, a dramatic move to try to tamp down on a rising number of cases and deaths."
"what does it feel like  some cruise ship passengers described symptoms similar to the common cold or flu.  it is been a 2 on a scale of 10,  said carl goldman, who was hospitalized in omaha, nebraska, after flying home. however, a chinese postgraduate student described going to the hospital twice after her symptoms worsened, and feeling  a heavy head while walking, unable to breathe, and nauseous. "
"firstly, to address the example of the covid-19 pandemic, and its effect on the popularity of donald trump  the level of correlation between the performance of the economy and us presidential popularity is well studied. for example, lse research in 2013 found that presidential approval is highly sensitive to changes in the share index:    a positive change in the index, when controlling for other relevant  factors, on average produces an increase in the president is approval.   interestingly, the effect is even more pronounced when we look at  market acceleration or deceleration. when the market is growing at an  increasing rate, voters reward the president, but when growth is  decelerating, the president is punished.   you are right that president trump is current opinion polls would seem to buck this trend, as the stock market has plummeted, with the dow jones crashing around 8000 points since the end of february, while the president enjoys record high approval ratings of 49  according to gallup. however, i would argue that instead of an indication that these two measures are no longer intrinsically linked, they are rather an exception to the rule, precedent for which already exists.  we can, for example, consider the performance of the stock market in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, with the nyse and the nasdaq closing for almost a week, the dow jones falling 14 , and the nyse market falling by 7.1 , a record at the time. clearly in normal times, this would have led to a dramatic fall in presidential approval. however, as you note in your question, president bush is approval rating soared to around 90 , the highest ever for a us president, and would go on to gradually lower over his tenure as president.  another example might be the gulf war in 1991. although this took place in the middle of a recession, which had lowered the approval of president bush snr., his victory in the crisis gave him record approval ratings. this lead was, however, squandered over the next year, as gallup puts it:  americans  attention shifted from the persian gulf to the struggling u.s. economy . he would, of course, go on to lose the 1992 election to bill clinton.  it seems, therefore, that rather than this incongruency representing a break from the established conventional wisdom that presidential approval, and as a result, us political outcomes, mirrors the stock market, it is at least at the moment a reflection of previous examples of the  rally around the flag  effect that you note in your question. whether or not trump is approval rating continues to stay at this high level will depend on how his response to the crisis is judged by the american public.  secondly, to evaluate the scope of your question more generally, there is a growing body of research which seems to support your notion that the aforementioned link between the performance of the economy and the electoral outcomes of incumbent politicians is becoming weaker, at least in the us.   for example, the nyt conducted a survey  notably before the current pandemic  weighted to match the demographic profile of the population of the united states, in which public opinion regarding trump is handling of the economy was tested. the full results can be found here. their analysis suggests that:    economic conditions have historically been among the best predictors  of presidential elections, and models based on those patterns suggest  that mr. trump would be favored to win re-election if the economy  remains more or less on its current path through election day. but it  is unclear whether historical lessons hold in an era of heightened  partisanship.   in particular, surveymonkey, who conducted the poll, note that    when asked which political party in general does a better job handling  the economy, the public is locked in a 45-45 deadlock. republicans  overwhelmingly  95   favor the republican party, while democrats  overwhelmingly  88   favor the democratic party. independents are  split, with 39  favoring the democrats and 36  favoring the  republicans.   it would seem according to this research, that although  jobs and the economy  remains the most important issue for the largest proportion  24   of the survey participants, their other partisan beliefs are unlikely to shake their party loyalty in the wake of a change in economic fortunes.  in addition, 538 has a great article on this, which i will not go into too much detail on because this answer is already pretty long, but in particular, silver notes that:    in particular, we do not have enough data to make overly specific  claims about the economy. that is, any time you see what you might  call a  magic bullet  claim, such as that second-quarter gdp is  crucial or that per-capita disposable income is the key economic  variable, you should be wary.   although he also echoes the misgivings of the nyt article, that partisanship could dull the response to a recession, he maintains that the performance of the economy is still very important to the outcome for the incumbent party -  the better off america is by november, the more likely he is to be re-elected.   in conclusion, then, although there is evidence to suggest that the conventional link between the economy and the fate of incumbent officials is weakening due to increased polarization and partisanship, the link is still undeniably extant. while in this specific case around the covid-19 pandemic the incongruency can perhaps be explained by the  rally  round the flag  effect, it seems likely that the ultimate fate of trump is 2020 campaign will be defined by his response to the pandemic and the underlying economical issues over the coming months. it is still far too early, in my opinion, to write off our conventional knowledge based on a few opinion polls conducted during a crisis. "
"the longer a mask is used and the more damp it becomes, the less effective itis, poland said.  but it is definitely better than the alternative of nomask  "
"coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread from person to person through respiratory droplets. currently, there is no evidence to support transmission of covid-19 associated with food. before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds for general food safety. throughout the day use a tissue to cover your coughing or sneezing, and wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom. it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object, like a packaging container, that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. in general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging. learn what is known about the spread of covid-19."
"with ryanair, i would continue to insist on the refund. if it was done on a visa debit or credit card, i would ask the bank to reverse it. i suspect that will be faster than waiting for ryanair. but give the bank the evidence that you are supposed to get a refund. otherwise, they will say it was a legitimate charge. "
"the evolutionary related group  clade  of betacoronaviruses you have identified share an amino acid homology of 85  and include sars. i know this from the underlying tree published on biorxiv of a broader group of betacoronaviruses, i.e. your data is a defined subset of the betacoronaviruses which all share a unique, single common ancester.  lets call this group the sars clade.  you have performed a nucleotide blast and asked ncbi to produce a nj tree using 2019-ncov as the reference. i can tell this by the colour coding and the scale bar at the bottom right hand corner shows the genetic distance involved is reasonably larger than 15  divergence by amino acid data. the scale bar represents the number of mutations per nucleotide.   in summary, your tree is essentially a subset of the broader genetic diversity of the one published, but there is there is a rooting issue.   in your tree, the majority of sequences are from the 2002 sars epidemic and the virtually zero genetic distance between them is simply because it is a rapidly transmitted outbreak. i did not realize that sars has two independent origins both initially from bats. this is quite scary.    2019-ncov is an outgroup within the isars clade  hence it appears at the other side of the tree, i.e. they share a more distant common ancestor however 2019-ncov is not the most distant common ancester within this subset of the betacoronaviruses, i.e. sars clade, this belongs to the two bat viruses zc45 and zx21. the program has made a likely rooting error  below . again the blast omitted the majority of the betacoronaviruses, for example mers   rooting issue the reason i suggest there is a rooting error is because the biorxiv tree using a broad sample of the betacoronaviruses placed the bat strains zc45 and zx21 as outgroups to the sars clade and 2019-ncov was immediately within that, so in this definition 2019-ncov is an  ingroup  within the sars clade, whereas your tree it is an  outgroup . it not a huge issue, but the location of the  root  is determined by the common ancester above it  sequences with  lt 85  homology  and in your tree those have been omitted.   generally, i like the analysis otherwise and gives an insight into sars that i had not previosly been aware of. "
"right now, you must apply for a new visa, and it does not look like fees are refunded or waived:    is a visa fee refundable   visa fees for visas that have not been used by covid-19 cannot be refunded. a new application must be submitted.    i have not travelled to the netherlands yet. can the period of my already issued visa be extended   the duration of issued visas of travelers who have not yet been able to travel to the netherlands due to cancelled flights cannot be extended. a new visa application must be submitted.   http://www.netherlandsandyou.nl/travel-and-residence/visas-for-the-netherlands/qas-short-stay-schengen-visa  whether this changes in due course is something no one knows right now. "
"it is not just us institutions, there are many countries, institutions - including banks - and companies running on ancient software and hardware.  there are multiple reasons for that:  first, from the business standpoint, replacing software costs money. why spend money to replace something that already meets requirements  if you have software a that does what you want, already exists and is  free , since you already own it, and software b, which does not exist yet, costs years of development time, probably requires new hardware and has the associated costs for all of that, which would your boss or your  often very much non-technical  boss  is boss approve  what would a government employee with a tight budget approve  what would a politician calling for less government spending approve   secondly, the exact workings of the system are often lost in time. no one actually knows what the system does exactly, but it interfaces with dozens of other systems through apis that are equally unknown, obscure or deprecated. creating a specification for such a system that a contractor/contracted company can work with is difficult, if not impossible. there is a huge risk that the resulting system will not replicate the behavior of the old system and stuff will stop working. it might do things like round .5 up instead of rounding to even like the old system, which could cause all the bills or transactions to suddenly be off by 1 cent compared to the previous system. in government, a broken system could mean that the unemployed might not get their benefits, the tax payers not their yearly tax payback or any number of things that will lead to an elected politician not being reelected. politicians like being reelected, so even if they understand the technical need, which is rare anyways, they might avoid the risks for political reasons. often there were attempts at replacing the system, which then failed and then those failures get pointed at whenever someone proposes replacing the system.  thirdly, the old systems usually have a very bad user interface. a new system will have a shiny, new interface, sometimes because creating the old interface would not even be feasible in a new application. this requires training people. people that have worked in the company or institution for 40-50 years and are very set in their ways. those people often have a lot of blocking power, which can completely halt development on the new system, because their requirements, i.e.  do not change anything,  are not met. they are usually also very hard to fire and replace, so the institution has to hire new people without firing them, which requires a bigger budget, which comes back to the first point.  in summary, as technical people we might understand that those systems will someday inevitably go  poof  and everything will break down catastrophically. other people either do not know that it can happen, or they just hope that it will happen after their time, because in the end no one wants to pay the money, take the risk and take the blame for a project that will probably fail. "
"since it seems unlikely that these data are available already from the novel virus, i will refer to other coronavirus strains associated with outbreaks, the sars-cov coronavirus associated with an outbreak in 2003 and mers-cov.  in reference to the stability of the virus outside the body for sars-cov, the who consensus document said:    data from the chinese university in hong kong indicated that sars-cov has  been isolated from stool on paper, a formica surface and a plastered wall after 36 hours, on a plastic surface and stainless steel after 72 hours, and after 96 hours on a glass slide.  hospital environmental samples from a number of sites, including walls and the ventilation  system, tested pcr positive in canada.   a later follow-up confirmed that sars-cov is viable possibly for days in the right conditions:    in the present study, we have demonstrated that sars cov can survive at least two weeks after drying at temperature and humidity conditions found in an air-conditioned environment. the virus is stable for 3 weeks at room temperature in a liquid environment1   1chan, k. h., peiris, j. s., lam, s. y., poon, l. l. m., yuen, k. y.,  amp  seto, w. h.  2011 . the effects of temperature and relative humidity on the viability of the sars coronavirus. advances in virology, 2011.  this suggests that sars-cov was better at surviving in the environment than other related strains, especially in cool temperatures. however, there was still a substantial decrease in viral titre by 1 week.  for mers-cov,    mers-cov virus could still be recovered after 48 hours2   ...on plastic and steel surfaces, though not at 72 hours, at 20c. the virus degraded more quickly at higher temperatures.  2van doremalen, n., bushmaker, t.,  amp  munster, v. j.  2013 . stability of middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus  mers-cov  under different environmental conditions. eurosurveillance, 18 38 , 20590.    assuming the new 2019-ncov virus is similar to these, there is a risk of environmental transmission particularly in high-exposure locations like hospitals. it seems far less likely to be a risk after multiple weeks, but there is still little known about the new strain.  i was unable to find more than speculation about rates of actual infection due to exposure in these conditions, but that speculation is mostly focused on the health care setting and in particular on transmission in health care settings despite extensive precautions.  it is very difficult to connect culture viability to actual transmission risks, and not really ethical to swipe different concentrations of a coronavirus on the surfaces of a room and let people wander through to see how many get sick. therefore, the best evidence for surface transmission of these viruses is when other methods of exposure can be mostly ruled out, and this is a very imperfect estimate. "
"of the more than 586,000 people who have been infected worldwide, more than 26,000 have died. that is a death rate of about 4.6 . the who has previously estimated the rate at about 3.4 .    the death rate, however, varies widely based on age, health and geographic location. people who are older or who have preexisting conditions are at higher risk of severe illness."
"can infected people who recover get it again  it is not known. a few reports from china say some people had covid-19, recovered and then fell ill again. it is unclear if that is a relapse, a new infection, or a case where the person never fully recovered in the first place. scientists at the at the fred hutchinson cancer research center in seattle say the 30,000-letter genetic code of the virus changes by one letter every 15 days. it is not known how many of these changes would be needed for the virus to seem different enough to the immune system of someone who had a previous version of it for it to cause a fresh infection. fauci told congress on thursday that it was unlikely that someone could get reinfected.  we have not formally proved it, but it is strongly likely that that is the case,  he said.  because if this acts like any other virus, once you recover, you will not get reinfected. "
"there are currently no formal restrictions on moving house, although the government has strongly advised against it where possible. it says that while there is no need to pull out of transactions, buyers and renters should delay moving so they can observe social distancing and self-isolating guidelines.    if the house you are moving into is empty, it is fine to carry on as long as these rules are observed during the removals process. if the property is occupied, the government is encouraging the buyer and seller to find an alternative moving date further down the line.    mortgage lenders have also been tightening their restrictions, with some requiring a deposit of at least 25 . but this does not affect mortgages which have already been agreed. many lenders are offering customers who have already exchanged the option to extend their mortgage offer for up to three months so that they can move at a later date.    this timeframe may give you some idea of how long all of this could go on for, although nobody knows for sure.    the house buying process differs between scotland and england and wales, but the advice on delaying a move is the same."
"covid-19 has caused widespread destruction around the world, with even developed nations including italy, france and spain reporting thousands of deaths and completely overwhelmed health-care systems.  the situation was rapidly deteriorating into something similar in the u.s. by march 31, with new york city is iconic central park  turning into a makeshift hospital  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/scenes-from-the-epicentre- grim-images-from-new-york-city-1.4874424  and experts predicting  82,000 deaths  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/82-000-people-could-die-in- u-s-from-coronavirus-by-august-model-cited-by-white-house-1.4875601  even in a best-case scenario.  canada has thus far avoided the worst of the outbreak, but experts are unable to say whether that will continue - in fact, they are  unable to offer any credible forecasts at all  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/when- will-canada-pass-the-peak-of-covid-19-even-the-experts-don-t-know-1.4869852 .  projecting the spread of the virus through canada at this point is nearly impossible because of several factors, including uncertainty over how many canadians have actually been infected, unknowns around whether canadians are following public health recommendations well enough to curb covid-19 is spread, and the lag time between when an infection occurs and when it is reflected in the data.   we do not exactly know where we are on the epidemic curve, and we do not exactly know where we were when we started having our strong public health response,  dr. ashleigh tuite, an expert in modelling the spread of infectious diseases, told ctvnews.ca on march 26."
"will it go away in the summer  flu fades each spring and the new virus may do the same, fauci said last week in a podcast with a journal editor.  i am hoping that as we get into the warmer weather we will see a decline that will give us a chance to get our preparedness up to speed,  fauci said. but that, too, is far from certain.  we have to assume that the virus will continue to have the capacity to spread, and it is a false hope to say yes, it will just disappear in the summertime like influenza,  said dr. michael ryan, the world health organization is emergencies chief. flu viruses also mutate quickly, requiring new vaccines to be made each year. if the coronavirus follows suit, frieden said,  it could become a virus that circulates around the world for many years to come. "
"there is not really an inherent difference between these viruses. polio is a run of the mill enterovirus - some of its closest relatives are  common colds , while others are less pleasant - see http://www.slideshare.net/tarekmahbubkhan/enteroviruses-and-polio for some examples. note that some  common cold  viruses have uncommon but nonetheless devastating polio like effects  a leading culprit for acute flaccid myelitis  polio-like paralysis  was the common cold enterovirus d68   http://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/piis1473-3099 18 30094-x/fulltext but i have not checked for updates lately . but for that virus, damaging replication in nerve tissue is at most a rare complication rather than a frequent one.  coronavirus has long been known for several strains of  common colds   they were just not as frequently deadly. unfortunately, we did not see the  cold and flu season  as a demonstration of defenselessness against viral outbreaks, and did not use the opportunity to practice exterminating them. "
"we are aware of instances of animals and pets ofcovid-19 patients being infected with the disease as the intergovernmental body responsible for improving animal healthworldwide, the world organisation for animal health  oie  has been developing technicalguidance on specialised topics related to animal health, dedicated toveterinary services and technical experts  including on testing andquarantine  there is a possibility for some animals to becomeinfected through close contact with infected humans. further evidence isneeded to understand if animals and pets can spread thedisease based on current evidence, human to human transmission remainsthe main driver it is still too early to say whether cats could be theintermediate host in the transmission of the covid-19."
"the viruses are acting differently. sars2-ncov-19 virus is much more infectious with a much higher viral replication rate, and with people exhaling the virus in the pre-symptomatic phase whereas sars this was not happening. once the infected individual becomes symptomatic their bodies are producing antibodies which helps shut down viral particle shedding though virus is still being transmitted by cough which aerolizes the virus at a further distance then just by exhalation.    the nine patients, who were admitted to the same munich hospital, were studied because they had had close contact with an index case. cell cultures and real-time polymerase chain reaction  rt-pcr  were done on throat swabs and samples of sputum, stool, blood, and urine. throat swabs showed very high viral shedding during the first week of symptoms.    the findings contrasted starkly with those from the 2003 outbreak of sars in terms of viral load.  in sars, it took 7 to 10 days after onset until peak rna concentrations  of up to 5x105 copies per swab  were reached,  the researchers wrote.  in the present study, peak concentrations were reached before day 5, and were more than 1,000 times higher.    but the mean incubation period is 5 days.  http://www.cidrap.umn.edu/news-perspective/2020/03/study-highlights-ease-spread-covid-19-viruses "
"the main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. the risk of catching covid-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. however, many people with covid-19 experience only mild symptoms. this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. it is therefore possible to catch covid-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill."
" common advice given is that if you decide to become an active or passive investor, you should stick with the choice you have made.   no you should not. it is perfectly fine to supplement an active portfolio by passive index funds, or to supplement an index fund portfolio with several carefully chosen stocks.  what is bad advice is to buy lots of various active funds  leading to index returns, because there are so many of the active funds, without low costs of index investing . if you believe in active investing, you should select only a fund or at most two in the same market, having fund managers you can trust.  what is also bad advice is to buy quasi-active funds, funds that claim to be active but do not really take any active risk because the fund manager fears losing to the index return. in this case, too, you pay for active management but get passive returns.  let me propose a case where you could supplement an index portfolio with some actively chosen stocks. if you, for example, like traveling a lot more than most people. unfortunately, traveling uses oil, so it might be a good idea to buy stocks of oil companies. traveling also requires aeroplanes, so it might be a good idea to buy aeroplane manufacturer stocks. you of course travel with an airline, so it might be a good idea to buy airliner stocks.  or, if you drive a lot with an electric car. in this case, it might be a good idea to supplement your index portfolio with stocks of tesla and electric utility companies, especially those that produce electricity with fixed cost structure like hydropower or nuclear power.  let me also propose a case where you could supplement an active portfolio with some index funds: you run out of ideas. simply said. you have so much money to invest but you can not find any companies where you would like to increase your ownership. in this case, it is perfectly fine to buy index funds. or, you could hire a monkey to throw darts into a list of stocks to select new investments for you. but it is much simpler to buy index funds than to hire a dart-throwing monkey. "
you can use a monte carlo approach to estimate the variation of the parameters. such method is explained in this blogpost http://blog.ephorie.de/contagiousness-of-covid-19-part-i-improvements-of-mathematical-fitting-guest-post   also you can estimate the variance of parameters based on the fisher information matrix which can be approximated with the second-order derivative of an empirical likelihood function  based on your mle and estimate of deviance .   i am sure that there are several posts about this already on this q amp a site. if you search for  variance of parameter estimates  or something like that you might find out more. 
"age is a red herring, only a secondary characteristic correlating to death rates.  it is people that are already seriously ill or already have weak immune systems that are most likely to die soon after contracting covid-19. and it is when people are clustered in a close community that they are most likely to contract the disease.  in our society, the people in those circumstances tend to be old and in health-care facilities. as a result, most of our deaths so far have involved people over 80 years old.  in other societies, a lack of old people does not necessarily mean a lack people living in close quarters, that are weak or sick.  there is certainly no shortage of such conditions in many parts of africa.  from coronavirus disease  covid-19  - our world in data:   "
"at the moment, there is very little scientific literature about this, but i found two papers that address the problem and are fairly easy to understand. you can find them in the references. reference 1 is probably the most interesting and is the basis for this answer. edit: it is also interesting to read reference 2 on the origin of sars-cov-2, the article also addresses some of the conspiracy theories.  as far as i can see, there are a few major points taken up by conspiracy theories.  1. sars-cov-2 leaked from a lab, in which research on the bat cov  ratg13  was done:  unlikely, since both viruses share only around 96  sequence homology which translates into more than 1100 sites where the sequence of sars-cov-2 viruses is different from ratg13. the mutations are distributed throughout the viral genome in a natural evolutionary pattern, making it highly unlikely that sars-cov-2 is a direct descendant from ratg13. for comparison, the original sars-cov and the intermediate host palm civet sars-like cov from which it originated shared 99.8  sequence homology, showing a much closer relation.  2. the s  spike  protein from bat sars-cov cannot be used to enter human cells via the human ace2 receptor and therefore has been adapted in the lab:  this is untrue, since a 2013 study of a novel bat corona virus was published showing the ability of the virus to enter cells via the ace2 receptor. see reference 3 for details.  3. the spike protein of sars-cov contains a unique inserted sequence  1378 bp  located in the middle of its spike glycoprotein gene that had no match in other coronaviruses:  as shown in reference 4, the sequence comparision of the sars-cov-2 with closely related other corona viruses shows that this sequence is not unique to the new virus but is already present in older strains. it shows some difference due to inserted mutations.  4. the claim that sars-cov-2 contains four insertions from hiv-1:  the paper claiming this has now been retracted due to severe criticism, and additionally a renowned hiv expert published an analysis  reference 5  demonstrating that the hiv-1 claimed insertions are random rather than targeted.  5. the claim that the sars-cov-2 virus is completely man-made:  to design such a  weapon grade  virus in the lab, the design would usually start from a known virus backbone and then introduce logical changes  for example, complete genes from other viruses . this cannot be seen in the genome of the virus, rather you see randomly distributes changes throughout the genome coming from virus evolution and not directed cloning. it is more likely that this virus originates from the recombination of a bat cov  to which it is closely, but not directly related  and another, not yet known cov in an intermediate host, like the palm civet for the 2003 cov.  references:   no credible evidence supporting claims of the laboratory engineering of sars-cov-2 the proximal origin of sars-cov-2 isolation and characterization of a bat sars-like coronavirus that uses the ace2 receptor is sars-cov-2 originated from laboratory  a rebuttal to the claim of formation via laboratory recombination hiv-1 did not contribute to the 2019-ncov genome  "
"ideally, you should limit your children is potential exposures to coronavirus and work out the safest plan possible with your ex.   the problem: most state and county family courts are closed, or open only for emergencies involving abuse or endangerment. so if parents wanted to formally modify pre-existing custody agreements, they can not.  but some states may be offering some flexibility during the pandemic. and there may be creative solutions, such as spending more time with one parent now in exchange for extra time with the other parent after the pandemic ends."
"as i understand it, during the  transition period  free movement still applies, so until the end of the year you can in-principle move to the uk and take a job without a visa. you can then apply under the eu settlement scheme to remain in the uk after the end of the transition period.  the big wildcard here though is the covid-19 situation. right now face to face education in the uk is basically shut down and establishments are struggling to figure out how to teach remotely. people are being told not to travel unless it is essential. frankly at this time noone knows how the situation will have developed by august. "
"delays in reporting can cause the number of covid-19 cases reported on previous days to increase.  sometimes this effect is described as  backfill.   state, local, and territorial health departments report the number of cases that have been confirmed and share these data with cdc. since it takes time to conduct laboratory testing, cases from a previous day may be added to the daily counts a few days late."
"sorry this is a cut and paste answer from http://pharma.elsevier.com/pharma-rd/approaches-for-creating-a-covid-19-vaccine/    before the coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  pandemic, no one had ever heard of the causative agent 2019 novel coronavirus  sars-cov-2 . there were no approved antivirals or vaccines for this virus or for any related coronaviruses  e.g., severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus  sars-cov  or middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus .    problems with covid-19 vaccine development    developing vaccines from scratch--which is required for covid-19--is typically not a good option for stopping an ongoing pandemic. the extensive time required to develop a safe and effective vaccine that can prevent future disease in vaccine recipients  average of approximately 10 years   1  means that the public health threat will end long before a candidate vaccine is licensed.    vaccine development requires extensive planning regarding vaccine design, vaccine production and purification, preclinical testing in animals  to ensure some safety in humans , and multiple phases of clinical trials in humans  phase 1 for safety and phases 2 and 3 for efficacy . companies taking the risk and proceeding with vaccine development for sars-cov-2  at least 13 companies as of march 7, 2020   2  are banking on the virus continuously circulating, so they have a population to conduct phase 2 and 3 trials with. if the virus disappears from circulation in china--or the perceived risk the virus poses to human health substantially declines--before phase 2 trials end, vaccine development will probably end.    vaccine design approaches    vaccines that are safe and stimulate the right immune responses that confer protection from disease are challenging to design. there are a number of different strategies companies have used: live attenuated or inactivated viruses, virus-like particles or other protein-based approaches, viral vector-based vaccines or nucleic acid-based vaccines. of the potential sars-cov-2 vaccines in the pipeline, four involve nonreplicating viruses or protein constructs, four have nucleic acid-based designs, two contain live attenuated viruses and one involves a viral vector  2 . regarding the previous sars pandemic, one inactivated sars-cov  3  and one dna-based vaccine  4  made it through phase 1 trials before vaccine development ended.    the different approaches for vaccine design all carry different advantages and disadvantages  5 . approaches involving replicating viruses stimulate robust immune responses, but safety is often a concern. protein vaccines and nucleic acid-based vaccines are often safer but typically have less immunogenicity, and they require adjustments to induce stronger immune responses. nucleic acid-based vaccines are typically the fastest to get into phase 1 studies, but no nucleic acid vaccine has been licensed for use in humans as of yet.    because of safety concerns involving older populations  who have higher risk for severe disease , using a live attenuated virus might not be the best approach  6 . patients with severe disease typically have t-helper 2 responses  immune responses typically induced against extracellular parasites , so vaccines known to elicit this type of immune response  inactivated viruses, virus vectors  might also be best avoided. vaccines involving protein-based  virus protein subunits, virus-like particles, nanoparticles  or nucleic acid-based  dna or rna encoding virus structural proteins  designs, which do not have known safety disadvantages, might be the best approaches for sars-cov-2.    unfortunately, our knowledge of the immune response is not advanced enough for us to accurately predict vaccine safety and efficacy. what we have to do  testing multiple different strategies  is exactly what is being done. only with results from more extensive research will we know the absolute best approaches for sars-cov-2 vaccine development.    furthermore experts have said that the sars-cov-2 virus is heavily glycosalated so that potential immune epitopes are hidden from the immune system. "
"depending on the type of surface, the virus can stay on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days, according to the who. a recent study by scientists in the u.s. found that viable virus could be detected up to three hours later in the air, up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to two to three days on plastic and stainless steel.     however, a subsequent report from the cdc found that genetic material from the virus can live on surfaces for more than two weeks. the cdc found traces of the virus  rna, not the coronavirus itself, on surfaces in the cabins of both symptomatic and asymptomatic infected passengers on the diamond princess cruise ship - 17 days after passengers had left the cabins.    it is possible that you can become infected if you touch your face after touching a surface or object that has the virus on it, according to the cdc. but scientists do not think surfaces are the main way that the virus spreads  the most common form of infection is from respiratory droplets spread by a person is cough or sneeze, the cdc reports.    meanwhile, the who says it is very unlikely that the virus will persist on a surface after being moved, traveled and exposed to different conditions and temperatures. that means the virus cannot spread through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting coronavirus cases.    at the same time, the who is reportedly encouraging people to use as many digital payment options as possible. viruses can survive on hard surfaces like coins for days in some cases. u.s dollars, a blend of fabric and paper, are harder for viruses to stick to."
"federal health officials are asking americans to stay home as much as possible and cancel any elective surgeries. some local and state governments have implemented stricter rules.  if it is possible to keep your appointment and speak with your provider over the phone or video, you should. however, if you cannot speak with a provider remotely and are able to reschedule your in-person appointment for a later date, you should."
"with public health officials warning that canadians must adhere to physical distancing policies in order to  flatten the curve  of infections, as hong kong and singapore successfully did, other experts are expressing concerns about a  second wave  of infections after those regions experienced another spike in cases when they relaxed some of those measures.  bogoch said that it is possible canada will experience a similar fate, if people are not diligent about maintaining isolation and physical distancing orders.   if we take our foot off the gas pedal, when we start to lift some of these measures because we start to see the curve flattening, we have to be prepared that there might be a second spike in cases,  he explained.   "
"no, although rna fragments of sars-cov-2 were detected in blood of symptomatic covid-19 patients, this does not mean that the virus is viable/infectious. in general, respiratory viruses are not known to be transmitted by blood transfusion. blood centers should have routine blood donor screening measures in place to prevent individuals with respiratory symptoms or fever from donating blood. as precautionary measures, blood centers might encourage self-deferral of those with travel history to an covid-19 affected country in the previous 14 days, or of those who have been diagnosed with covid-19 or are close contact with a confirmed covid-19 case."
"the answer is    coronavirus       passage 8    corridor.   poetry 7    rondeau, i suppose.   guide 9    navigator.   indirect 7    virtual.   rural 6    rustic.   feedback section: the method of solution was not very clear until after the hints. at first i would assumed we would be looking for three-letter words each time, so i did not get anywhere solving this. it was clear that part of the puzzle would be to figure out why there is a number together with each clue, but i did not think we would need to find a longer word and then cut out just part of it to make the penta-decker. my suggestion would be to clue this somehow in the flavour text, so that it does not seem so arbitrary. something like:    making this new burger requires a lot of ingredients, each of which should be cleaned and processed before adding it to the burger.   bonus: talking about  cleaning  the ingredients relates indirectly to the solution as well as referring to cleaning off the excess letters  "
"at the very least, coffee  caffeine actually  can can have a complex interaction with pain medication.   caffeine can actually enhance the pain-relief effects of some medications, like aspirin, which is why it is included in some  combo  otc painkillers in some countries.  but if you take these regularly and drink caffeinated drinks too, you may well exceed the daily rda for caffeine, 400mg/day according to the fda.   however:    oddly enough, what makes caffeine effective in pain relief can also cause headaches.    since caffeine narrows the blood vessels that surround your brain, when you stop taking it they expand again, and that can cause pain.   i have also heard that if you do not take any pain meds, coffee will usually enhance your feeling of pain, but i can not find any  reliable  sources to back this up, even though in some circles it is recommended you do not drink caffeinated drinks when you have some  painful  medical  or quasi-medical e.g. tattoo, piercing, laser hair removal  procedures scheduled. ymmv.  actually a 2018 paper found that habitual coffee drinkers have decreased sensitivity to pain.   there are probably more aspects to consider including rigors and diuresis/sweating, both of which are probably modulated by caffeine.   webmd says  in an md-reviewed article :    these drinks will not help you get over your cold or flu, and some could do more harm than good.  ...       coffee. if you are going to sip a hot drink, might as well get your daily dose of caffeine in it, right  wrong. try to stick with water and nutrient-rich soups.     but rather disappointing they do not offer any reasons why coffee should be avoided in this case, except that it is inferior to  nutrient-rich soups . but this seems hardly a flu-specific argument, i.e. you can not expect your diet to be just coffee anyway.  the cdc flu  patient  guide makes a similar recommendation:    if the sick person is not eating well, encourage  them to drink liquids. avoid alcohol or drinks  with caffeine in them such as colas, tea, and  coffee.   while apparently no reason whatsoever for avoiding coffee is given in there, this is put under the  tips to prevent dehydration  heading, so it is probably due to sweating/diuresis being enhanced by caffeine. this seems to be a really controversial topic, e.g. a time mag article cites some experts saying otherwise, so it is probably better left for a separate question.    it is true that caffeine is a mild diuretic, which means that it causes your kidneys to flush extra sodium and water from the body through urine. if you are peeing frequently, and thus losing lots of liquid, it is logical to think you could become dehydrated -- but it actually does not work that way, explains dr. daniel vigil, an associate clinical professor of family medicine at the david geffen school of medicine at the university of california los angeles.     when you drink a cup of coffee or you drink a glass of iced tea, you are necessarily taking in a volume of fluid along with that dose of  caffeine ,  vigil says. even though caffeine is a mild diuretic, vigil says, you will not lose more fluid through urine than you take in by drinking a caffeinated beverage. your body is able to absorb as much fluid as it needs and expel the rest, he says.   some studies seem to back up this latter view, but they involve healthy individuals. "
"stay aware of the latest information on the covid-19 outbreak, available on the who website and through your national and local public health authority. many countries around the world have seen cases of covid-19 and several have seen outbreaks. authorities in china and some other countries have succeeded in slowing or stopping their outbreaks. however, the situation is unpredictable so check regularly for the latest news.      you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:     regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.     maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.     avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.     make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately. why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.     stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority. why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area.      calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.      keep up to date on the latest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 is spreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older person or have diabetes, heart or lung disease. why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas."
"fundamentally, i think there is a high level  and perhaps unsatisfying  answer to this. it is because that is not  banking  as a business, and a bank is established to do banking, not to get into the stock market. in other words, this question strikes me about the same as asking,    why do not ice cream shops stop selling ice cream, and instead get in the business of selling pancakes  after all, you can make a lot of money selling pancakes.   well yes, you can get rich selling pancakes, but not every business is a pancake shop. certainly, some businesses get rich selling pancakes, but other businesses with different motivations and risk tolerances decide to sell ice cream instead.  to make this clear in your banking context: such a business would essentially be called a hedge fund or investment management company, not a bank. it is fine if a company wants to be a hedge fund, but a company that is calling itself a bank can not secretly switch over to being a hedge fund, and still call itself a bank while supporting  banking  activities for normal consumers.  from a more practical perspective, most jurisdictions have carefully developed regulations that would essentially prohibit a business calling itself a bank from doing what you are discussing. essentially, these regulations exist because of my first point - the business model you are describing is not  banking.  and, regulations are designed around that, in the sense that regulations keep banks acting like banks and stop them from trying to act like something that is not a bank.  i am editing to clarify a portion of your question, as an example of this disconnect. you said,    as far as i know, banks can borrow money from the central bank at quite low interest rates   that is not really the whole story. think of it this way. imagine if you were to walk into a retail bank right now, and ask for a loan for a million dollars. the bank would certainly ask you some questions, including asking what you intended to do with that money and how you could show proof that you are able to pay it back. if you were able to prove that you have a large and stable income, and that you were planning on using the million dollars to purchase a home that is actually worth a million dollars, you might get approved. but what if you told the bank,  i am actually empty handed, but i am going to go invest this in the stock market, i think i have a proven way to make a positive return  - they might deny you on the spot, or at least they might have a lot more questions for you   the relationship between central banks and retail banks is fundamentally similar. a retail bank can not just call up the central bank and say,  please wire me a billion dollars  and instantly, the money shows up. retail banks essentially have to go through a process of validating their operational intentions, showing proof that they can pay the loan back, and perhaps even putting up collateral, before the money changes hands. and, a retail bank with no collateral who indicated that they wanted to play the stock market would almost certainly get turned down by the central bank.  i am making another edit to address another core flaw in your assumptions. you said,    we can almost say that it has become  common knowledge  that investing in the broad stock market  sufficient diversification  on a long term perspective  several decades  is a very good investment strategy   while that may be a sound theory it is not a practical method for a bank to keep or invest assets, because of liquidity and predictability. it may be accurate to say that  in the long term  a diversified stock portfolio can be bulletproof. but banks can not issue cash to deposit customers based on long term theories. they have to be able to predict the availability of funds very well - the stability of their outcomes, not just the expected result. in other words, if a bank has  10 billion in assets, they need to know precisely how much of that will be available to them tomorrow, or next tuesday, or in six months. your stock market theory may have the right expected outcome  positive growth , but it is got far too much potential variance on any particular day. yes,  in the long run  you may make money, but can you tell me exactly how much cash you will have next tuesday  no, you can not. you might have an acceptable expected outcome on average for all  next tuesdays  - but what if coronavirus takes off in the us this weekend  or something else happens  banks are not just concerned about the expected outcome, they are also concerned about variability in the range of expected outcomes. people do  banking activities  like deposit their paycheck into a deposit account, or take out a credit card loan, with the expectation of stability and availability of funds. those  features  which are essentially the definition of retail banking come as a trade off in terms of a slightly lower return  compared to your stock market portfolio . "
"passengers in transit do not count as long as you are not going to another schengen country, which you are not.    entry restrictions  a temporary travel restriction is in place until 15 april 2020 for travel from any country outside the eu to the following countries:      eu/schengen: austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, estonia, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, italy, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, netherlands, poland, portugal, romania, slovakia, slovenia, spain, sweden  associated countries: iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland      entry restriction exemptions:      citizens of all eu countries and the above associated countries  this includes citizens of the united kingdom   family members of the eu and associated state citizens  long term residents, those with a legal right to reside or hold long term visas  d-visa  to any of the above countries  any travelers having an essential function or need:      passengers in transit  unless in transit to another eu or associated country where their entry would be banned   healthcare professions, healthcare researchers and elderly care professionals  frontier workers  transport personnel engaged in haulage of goods and other transport staff to the extent necessary  diplomats and staff of international organisations  military personnel  humanitarian aid workers in the exercise of their function  travelling for imperative family reasons  eg. attending a funeral   those in need of international protection or for other humanitarian reasons       cathay pacific "
"no one knows how long many of us will have to work from or stay home, so having food and supplies on hand is essential. melissa clark, a cookbook author and food writer for the times,  recently wrote about   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/06/dining/how-to-stock-a- pantry.html stocking your pantry. but experts say people should not hoard food or supplies. despite the empty appearance of store shelves, food suppliers and retailers  say the supply chain remains strong  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/business/coronavirus- food-shortages.html . in the meantime, plan two weeks of meals. substitute ingredients if you are missing something. be creative. and do not forget to be generous with your neighbors."
"you need a molecule that disrupts the lipid layer of the virus to expose its rna, and deactivate it.   until the manufacturer of qv wash can confirm that it is capable of inactivating viruses, in particular the sars2-ncov-19 virus, then you should assume it will not work.    when you wash your hands with soap and water, you surround any microorganisms on your skin with soap molecules. the hydrophobic tails of the free-floating soap molecules attempt to evade water  in the process, they wedge themselves into the lipid envelopes of certain microbes and viruses, prying them apart.     they act like crowbars and destabilize the whole system,  said prof. pall thordarson, acting head of chemistry at the university of new south wales. essential proteins spill from the ruptured membranes into the surrounding water, killing the bacteria and rendering the viruses useless.   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/health/soap-coronavirus-handwashing-germs.html "
"yes, gdpr applies:   you are a data controller established/living in the uk or are offering services to people in the uk you fall under the material scope of the gdpr. the art 2 2  c  exemption for  purely personal or household activity  does not apply since you are offering the service to the public.   you must consider gdpr compliance here. this is especially important as you are showing personal data to the public. do not do that unless you have a very good reason, appropriate safeguards, and are clear to users how their information will be shown.  on a high level, gdpr compliance involves working on the following questions:   for what purpose are you processing personal data   context: purpose limitation principle per gdpr art 5 1  b  what is the legal basis for processing   gdpr art 6 1  lists the available legal bases. here, consent, necessity for performance of a contract, or a legitimate interest could be a legal basis. they may have further obligations attached. a legitimate interest requires a balancing test that considers the data subject is rights and freedoms. consent must fulfil the conditions per art 7 in order to be valid. what is the minimal data necessary to achieve the purpose   per the art 5 1  c  data minimisation principle, it is illegal to process personal data beyond what is necessary and adequate. you must provide data protection by design and by default per art 25. special categories of data per art 9 such as health data are illegal to process outside of narrow exemptions. you must delete data once it is no longer necessary. what appropriate safeguards and security measures should you apply   per art 24 and 25, you are responsible for determining and implementing appropriate measures. this depends a lot on your specific context, so there is no checklist you can apply. per art 25 1  you must pseudonymize the processed information if that is compatible with the processing purpose. what further compliance measures do you have to consider   there are additional gdpr and non-gdpr compliance measures. from the gdpr side:   use the answers to these questions to write a privacy policy, including the information that you must provide to data subjects per art 13. consider whether you have to maintain a records of processing document per art 30, or if you have to make a data protection impact assessment per art 35.  if you use third party services, figure out whether they are a joint controller or data processor and apply appropriate safeguards. if you have data processors, ensure that you have a contract in place that covers the items from art 28 3 . if you share data with other controllers  not processors  you need a legal basis for doing so. if you transfer data into a non-eu/eea country  after 2020: non-uk country  you need a legal basis per art 44 and have to cover additional items in your privacy policy. ideally, the target country is covered by an ec adequacy decision per art 45. for us-based companies, this is the case only when they have self-certified under the privacy shield framework.   non-gdpr compliance steps could include cookie consent banners, or showing a vat id. how can you prepare for data subject requests   data subjects have various rights per arts 15-23, subject to the modalities in art 12. for example, a data subject could request that their information is erased from your website. the exact rights also depend on the legal basis you selected. you should figure out in advance how to deal with such requests.  "
"public health officials are increasingly worried about misinformation that seems to accompany every outbreak, fueled by social media and inflammatory rhetoric. if you hear a rumor about the virus, check it out with reputable sources -- the cdc, state health agencies and the who all have websites with the most up-to-date information about the virus and its spread. increasingly, those agencies also have fact-checking sections on their websites, aimed at combating misinformation. one of the most troubling rumors that often spreads alongside outbreaks is who exactly has the disease -- something that can lead to racial and ethnic profiling. nirav shah, director of the maine center for disease control and prevention, said it is important to separate the disease from the person suffering from the disease. no ethnic group is more or less susceptible to the coronavirus.  my concern is that fear and misinformation will spread much faster than this virus will,  shah said in an interview wednesday. bottom line: if you hear what sounds like unrealistic information, check it out before you pass it around social media."
"will summer or humidity kill covid-19  chances are it will not. it might reduce the transmissibility of the virus due to extreme heat. but we have seen tropical countries like singapore report a good number of cases despite humidity. plus during summers, people generally spend more time indoors and in air-conditioned spaces, where the temperature is low. this can instead spread the virus. since we still do not know how this pandemic will play out in india, practicing social distancing is the best option."
"is it safe to visit hospitals  yes, it is safe to go to hospitals as covid-19 patients are kept in separate isolation wards. the covid-19 virus does not spread very far. if you have covid-19 patients isolated in one area of the hospital then the virus will not reach the other area. nonetheless, hospitals are crowded during flu season, so try postponing your visit to the opd for routine checkups."
"can we travel from one city to another in personal cars  no, most cities are under a lockdown"
"up to three days, depending on the surface. according to a study funded by the us national institutes of health:    the novel coronavirus is viable up to 72 hours after being placed on stainless steel and plastic.  it was viable up to four hours after being placed on copper, and up to 24 hours after being put on cardboard.  in aerosols, it was viable for three hours."
"physical distancing is the reason the federal government has closed pubs, indoor sporting venues and churches across australia. the situation with schools varies state by state. queensland, south australia, western australia, tasmania and northern territory will keep schools open for the children of essential workers but will began to implement pupil-free days in the coming weeks. victoria and act schools are already on break. nsw schools remain open but students are encouraged to stay at home. the prime minister has said all  non-essential  travel within australia should be cancelled. western australia and south australia have closed their borders - any arrivals after tuesday afternoon, march 24, will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. the goal of these social distancing measures is to avoid a worst-case scenario that would see four million australians contract covid-19 in a single wave. slowing the spread may prevent health services from being overwhelmed by coronavirus cases. from midnight on wednesday, march 25, these activities and businesses will no longer be allowed to continue: amusement parks and arcadesindoor and outdoor play centrescommunity and recreation centres, health clubs, fitness centres, yoga, barre, spin facilities, saunas, wellness centrespublic swimming poolsgalleries, museums, national institutions, historic sites, libraries, community centresauction housesreal estate auctions and open house inspectionsin-store beauty therapy, tanning, waxing, nail salons and tattoo parlours, spa and massage parlours  excluding allied-health-related services, like physiotherapy food courts within shopping centres will only be able to sell takeaway. shopping centres themselves will remain openhairdressers and barber shops can continue, but a customer must not be on the premises longer than one hourpersonal training and boot camps are limited to a maximum of 10 peopleweddings can continue, but only with the couple, the celebrant, and witnesses totalling a maximum of five peoplefunerals are limited to a maximum of 10 peopleoutdoor and indoor food markets will be addressed by individual states and territories"
"scientists are not sure yet. for many viruses, including the mers virus, patients are unlikely to be re-infected shortly after they recover because a protective antibody is generated in those who are infected. but scientists still need to do more research to determine if this is also the case with covid-19 and how long those antibodies may last.   however, in certain individuals, the antibody cannot last that long. for many patients who have been cured, there is a likelihood of relapse,  said li qingyuan, director of pneumonia prevention and treatment at china japan friendship hospital in beijing.  poland agreed, saying the chance of reinfection is  very likely. "
"here is a part answer for the germany leg of your trip  coronavirus: fragen und antworten see the question  bei welchen dringenden grunden ist ein grenzubertritt gestattet    what are the urgent reasons for crossing a border      zudem bleibt die ruckreise von eu-burgern und drittstaatsangehorigen in ihre herkunftsstaaten oder in den staat, in dem sie zum aufenthalt  langerfristige aufenthaltstitel  berechtigt sind, mittels transit durch deutschland zulassig.    and here the google translate    in addition, eu citizens and third-country nationals can return to their home countries or to the country in which they are entitled to stay  long-term residence permits  by transit through germany.  "
"expanding on the answer by tin nguyen, the euro is a a common currency for nations with separate economic policies and separate national debts. being a member of the eurozone stops nations from devaluating their currency to compensate for changing economic fundamentals.  before and during the 2007 financial crisis bonds from e.g. greece or italy had a risk premium compared to german bonds despite the fact that both were government bonds in the same currency. there were even signs that futures traders were driving this premium up by betting against certain governments, or on nations leaving the eurozone. the famous  whatever it takes  speech by draghi calmed that.  the financial consequences of the corona pandemic are not yet known, but it is clear that italy and spain will be hit hard. that will increase the risk on a default on national debt which increases the interest which investors demand. of course that further hinders economic recovery.  if the eurozone members jointly guarantee bonds, that lowers the interest payments for the less stable economies and possibly increases the interest for the more stable ones. this might or might not be to the benefit of the eu as a whole and the stronger members individually  since they all benefit from a strong eurozone , but the more or less clearly voiced suspicion is that corona is used as an excuse to enact a permanent transfer mechanism. "
"spain itself does not seem particularly risky, it is not the country most impacted in europe, it has fewer cases than either france or germany, most of them tourists or imported cases and is not considered a  risk area .  still, there are several things to be aware of:   traveling in general does increase your exposure  to this and other viruses , you would be spending hours in enclosed spaces and at times crowded public transportation, which, everything else being equal, is riskier than staying at home in either of the countries you would be crossing. the itinerary you describe would have you going through france, which is developing into one of the most severely affected countries in europe. there are several clusters whose source has not been fully elucidated, including one very close to paris. at this moment, the french government does not advise against travel in general  only in the oise and haute-savoie departement  but the situation could evolve quickly. it did activate  stage 2  of its emergency plan meaning the virus is circulating through the population and the focus is on slowing it down rather than isolating clusters and risk areas. if the situation worsens, you could conceivably be putting others at risk. there are few restrictions on travel in europe and blanket bans or border closures seem unlikely but if anything, spanish authorities should be more concerned about people like you coming from france than you should be about being in spain. it is possible the outbreak would develop further while you are in spain to the point of making your return more difficult or, indeed, mean isolation would be recommended when coming back to germany. you cannot know this before leaving  and i speak from experience as this just happened to me coming back from italy .  "
"a covid-19 vaccine is probably still at least a year away. the university of queensland has developed a vaccine candidate, and it is being tested on animals at the moment. human clinical trials will follow in a few months if the vaccine looks like it is going to be effective. but getting a vaccine to the market is a slow process, because health authorities have to be 100 per cent sure it is safe. even once a vaccine is shown to work and to be safe, scaling up production of the vaccine can take time, so it will probably be a year to 18 months before a vaccine will be available."
"it is felt a lot like 2008, has not it  peter s. goodman, an economics correspondent for the times, says there is a key difference between that economic turmoil and today is: the utter unpredictability of the outbreak is spread.  the disaster feels eerily familiar, with trillions of dollars in wealth annihilated near-daily and deepening fears that businesses will fail,   he writes  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/business/coronavirus-global- economy.html .  yet the traditional policy prescriptions seem no match for the affliction at hand.  the very means of controlling the health crisis -- keeping workers home, limiting travel and disrupting commerce -- risk making the economic crisis worse.  a sense of powerlessness is feeding the fear that is prompting investors to dump anything risky, which is in turn damaging economic prospects and reinforcing fear -- a feedback loop,  he writes."
"visit the covid-19 prevention and treatment page to learn about how to protect yourself from respiratory illnesses, like covid-19."
check with your school on plans to continue meal services during the school dismissal. many schools are keeping school facilities open to allow families to pick up meals or are providing grab-and-go meals at a central location.
"no. antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. covid-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of covid-19. they should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection."
"we do not entirely know yet. of the 81,191 confirmed cases, 2,768 people have died, a mortality rate of about 3 percent. that would be worse than the spanish flu, which had a mortality rate of about 2 percent, and substantially worse than a more ordinary influenza, which kills between one in a thousand and one in ten thousand people. but there are lots of unknowns. first, the bad news: only about 30,000 people have recovered from the virus, which leaves 50,000 or so still in some stage of treatment. not all of those people will recover, so the mortality rate is expected to rise at least a little bit. now, the good news: that 81,191 figure represents only the number of confirmed cases. it appears likely that many thousands more were infected and either did not suffer symptoms or suffered symptoms too minor to seek treatment. in that case, the mortality rate is probably substantially lower than the statistics make it seem."
"common cold is one of the labels used to describe non specific infection of the upper respiratory tract. other labels include acute rhinitis, acute rhinopharyngitis or acute coryza.  upper respiratory tract infections  uri  can be caused by multiple virus families such as the rhinovirus  the most common cause of uri , the influenza virus, the coronavirus and the adenovirus.  while most of the uri share similar manifestations like rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, cough and sore throat, some symptoms may be much likely associated with a specific type of virus: myalgia and fatigue are commonly seen in influenza and parainfluenza infections, while conjunctivitis are often linked to adenovirus infection.  in general cases, uri are self limited diseases. however, some patients  children aged less than 1 year and adults aged more than 65 years, pregnant woman, and people of any age with comorbid illnesses  are at risk of developing complications. pulmonary complications are the most frequent complications of influenza infection and are often associated with secondary bacterial infection that can lead to acute lung injury. the latter is associated with high mortality rate. neuromuscular and cardiovascular complications are less common.  sources:   kasper, dennis l, and tinsley r. harrison. harrison is principles of internal medicine. new york: mcgraw-hill, medical pub. division, rothberg mb1, haessler sd. complications of seasonal and pandemic influenza.crit care med. 2010 apr 38 4 suppl :e91-7  "
"it is     covid-19   my prefix means to work together, and when written in full words, it means something almost rectangular.     co means to work together. when written in full is almost rectangular  colorado state in the us    my infix is neves semit thgie semit enin in italy, and when written in full words, it means something usually rectangular.    9 8 7   504 in roman numerals is div in reverse is vid. when written in full words could video, which are usually rectangular.   my suffix is indivisible, and when written in full words, it can end its own suffix.    19 is a prime number. when written in full is nineteen,  missing explanation    my whole, despite not being phileas fogg, unfortunately managed to travel the whole world in less than 80 days  but it is rarely written in full words .    covid-19 went on world tour in less than 80 days, and is rarely written as coronavirus  full words   "
"everyone should be concerned about contracting the new coronavirus -- if not for yourself, then to protect others who are at risk of becoming severely ill. as with the flu, the virus is more dangerous for people who are older than 60, people who have a weakened immune system, and people with an underlying condition, like diabetes, asthma or another chronic illness."
"i read from strogatz is book that it was originated from modeling the human populations by verhulst in 1838. assume the population size is  n t  , then the per capita growth rate is   dot n t /n t  . by assuming the per capita growth rate descreases linearly with the population size, we can have the logistic equation of following form:    dot n t  rn 1- frac n  k  ,   where  k  is carrying capacity of the environment. from the equation, we can see that when  n  is very small, the population grows approximately exponentially. as  n  grows until half of the capacity, the derivative   dot n  is still increasing but slows down. once  n  passes the half line, the derivative decreases so we can see a bending curve  we can see this actually from coronavirus cases  and the population asymptotically approaches the capacity. up to this point, we observe the properties of a logistic function. intuitively, when  n  is larger the capacity, the population decreases. by further mathematical simplification of the equation, we have an equation like this:    frac df x   dx  f x  1-f x  ,   which has analytical solotion as:   f x   frac e x  e x   c .   with  c 1  we have the logistic function. "
"it is not merely perfectly fine  e.g., in the u.s. , but a very good thing to do.  conceivably in other cultures it could be construed as too intrusive, we must acknowledge.  "
"no, it is not about coronavirus. neither is  the eyes of darkness  by dean r koontz. coronavirus is actually a fairly well-known virus that has been around for quite some time. the cdc defines it as:    coronaviruses  cov  are a large family of viruses that cause illness  ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle  east respiratory syndrome  mers-cov  and severe acute respiratory  syndrome  sars-cov . a novel coronavirus  ncov  is a new strain that  has not been previously identified in humans.     coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between  animals and people. detailed investigations found that sars-cov was  transmitted from civet cats to humans and mers-cov from dromedary  camels to humans. several known coronaviruses are circulating in  animals that have not yet infected humans.   it is not uncommon to have a virus be very widespread and infect humans via an animal host. aids is also a virus which is believed to have spawned from animal to human contact. "
"i can think of two possible differences which might contribute this result, but i am not sure how you could test them. the different composition of the drinks will affect the surface tension. this could affect the rate of evaporation of the liquid. if this is the case, it may make a substantial difference to the rate of cooling as evaporation is probably the greatest cause of loss of temperature.  the other cooling effect which will be different is radiation. do you add milk to your tea  if the coffee is darker than the tea, it will radiate faster and cool faster for that reason.   if you do not add milk, the tea will be translucent. i am not exactly sure how that will affect things, because it means that radiation is possible from the interior, not just the surface. also it may not be translucent for the wavelengths radiated. but generally, i think a translucent substance will radiate much less.  "
"any eviction order  for non-payment  will not be enforced by the sheriff  as ordered by the court , and that is how evictions would happen. this is also required under the governor is order of march 20. foreclosure entails eviction - though the order prohibits the enforcement of an associated eviction order, and does not prohibit starting action against a property owner. theoretically, you could file for eviction against your tenant and at some point the petition could be granted, and the sheriff would enforce it. those are the current legal options. current  optimistic  projections are that evictions could happen in the second half of may. "
"the general answer to this, which applies in most democratic countries, is that governments are not legally responsible for  bad  decisions, whether made during a state of emergency or not. the main reasons for this are:   who is to say what is a  bad  decision  it is rarely obvious, even with 20/20 hindsight, and the general view is that the electorate is responsible for deciding, which means: the redress for governments who make bad decisions is that at the next election the people will vote them out.   that said, a state of emergency does not mean  anything goes . governments are still responsible for illegal actions. if a government ordered random shootings of innocent people in the street that would still be illegal, even in a state of emergency, and any soldier who carried out such an action could be prosecuted. a state of emergency extends what is legal, but does not extend it indefinitely. it might be legal to force the closure of businesses in a state of emergency, but not to kill random people. "
"good observation  the 3  poly a  tail is actually a very common feature of positive-strand rna viruses, including coronaviruses and picornaviruses.  for coronaviruses in particular, we know that the poly a  tail is required for replication, functioning in conjunction with the 3  untranslated region  utr  as a cis-acting signal for negative strand synthesis and attachment to the ribosome during translation. mutants lacking the poly a  tail are severely compromised in replication. jeannie spagnolo and brenda hogue report:    the 3  poly  a  tail plays an important, but as yet undefined role in coronavirus genome replication. to further examine the requirement for the coronavirus poly a  tail, we created truncated poly a  mutant defective interfering  di  rnas and observed the effects on replication. bovine coronavirus  bcv  and mouse hepatitis coronavirus a59  mhv-a59  di rnas with tails of 5 or 10 a residues were replicated, albeit at delayed kinetics as compared to di rnas with wild type tail lengths   50 a residues . a bcv di rna lacking a poly a  tail was unable to replicate  however, a mhv di lacking a tail did replicate following multiple virus passages. poly a  tail extension/repair was concurrent with robust replication of the tail mutants. binding of the host factor poly a - binding protein  pabp  appeared to correlate with the ability of di rnas to be replicated. poly a  tail mutants that were compromised for replication, or that were unable to replicate at all exhibited less in vitro pabp interaction. the data support the importance of the poly a  tail in coronavirus replication and further delineate the minimal requirements for viral genome propagation.    spagnolo j.f., hogue b.g.  2001  requirement of the poly a  tail in coronavirus genome replication. in: lavi e., weiss s.r., hingley s.t.  eds  the nidoviruses. advances in experimental medicine and biology, vol 494. springer, boston, ma   yu-hui peng et al. also report that the length of the poly a  tail is regulated during infection:    similar to eukaryotic mrna, the positive-strand coronavirus genome of  30 kilobases is 5 -capped and 3 -polyadenylated. it has been demonstrated that the length of the coronaviral poly a  tail is not static but regulated during infection  however, little is known regarding the factors involved in coronaviral polyadenylation and its regulation. here, we show that during infection, the level of coronavirus poly a  tail lengthening depends on the initial length upon infection and that the minimum length to initiate lengthening may lie between 5 and 9 nucleotides. by mutagenesis analysis, it was found that  i  the hexamer aguaaa and poly a  tail are two important elements responsible for synthesis of the coronavirus poly a  tail and may function in concert to accomplish polyadenylation and  ii  the function of the hexamer aguaaa in coronaviral polyadenylation is position dependent. based on these findings, we propose a process for how the coronaviral poly a  tail is synthesized and undergoes variation. our results provide the first genetic evidence to gain insight into coronaviral polyadenylation.    peng y-h, lin c-h, lin c-n, lo c-y, tsai t-l, wu h-y  2016  characterization of the role of hexamer aguaaa and poly a  tail in coronavirus polyadenylation. plos one 11 10 : e0165077   this builds upon prior work by hung-yi wu et al, which showed that the coronaviral 3  poly a  tail is approximately 65 nucleotides in length in both genomic and sgmrnas at peak viral rna synthesis, and also observed that the precise length varied throughout infection. most interestingly, they report:    functional analyses of poly a  tail length on specific viral rna species, furthermore, revealed that translation, in vivo, of rnas with the longer poly a  tail was enhanced over those with the shorter poly a . although the mechanisms by which the tail lengths vary is unknown, experimental results together suggest that the length of the poly a  and poly u  tails is regulated. one potential function of regulated poly a  tail length might be that for the coronavirus genome a longer poly a  favors translation. the regulation of coronavirus translation by poly a  tail length resembles that during embryonal development suggesting there may be mechanistic parallels.    wu hy, ke ty, liao wy, chang ny. regulation of coronaviral poly a  tail length during infection. plos one. 2013 8 7 :e70548. published 2013 jul 29. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0070548   it is also worth pointing out that poly a  tails at the 3  end of rna are not an unusual feature of viruses. eukaryotic mrna almost always contains poly a  tails, which are added post-transcriptionally in a process known as polyadenylation. it should not therefore be surprising that positive-strand rna viruses would have poly a  tails as well. in eukaryotic mrna, the central sequence motif for identifying a polyadenylation region is aauaaa, identified way back in the 1970s, with more recent research confirming its ubiquity. proudfoot 2011 is a nice review article on poly a  signals in eukaryotic mrna. "
"the most common symptoms of covid-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. some people become infected but do not develop any symptoms and do not feel unwell. most people  about 80   recover from the disease without needing special treatment. around 1 out of every 6 people who gets covid-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. people with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention."
"there is no limit because there is also no provision for that. article l56 of the code electoral even provides that:    en cas de deuxieme tour de scrutin, il y est procede le dimanche suivant le premier tour.   in other words, any run-off has to take place the week after the first round of voting.  but, absent any constitutional provision to the contrary, anything and everything that is defined in a statute can in principle be undone by the parliament. postponing the run-off at the last minute is a very ad hoc solution, not something that would be part of a well-defined procedure.  at this point, the government rescinded the decret calling the election and the parliament  both chambers  adopted a statute dealing with several issues arising from this  what to do with the results, etc.  in fact, that statute also extends the term of all town councils that have not been replaced, as it could otherwise be deemed to expire.  it also provides that before setting a new date the government must publish the conclusions of its advisory scientific committee and that if it turns out to be impossible to organise the run-off in june then the election would be completely cancelled and the process should be restarted from scratch  new candidates, new ballots, new campaign, etc.   obviously, from a purely legal point of view, all these dispositions are also liable to be changed at any time should the parliament agree to do so. "
"even if your cat is infected with fip, the neutering is safe to do. i have had this done to a feral cat i had a couple of years ago  actually it was done at the same time as a tooth was extracted as a result of fip .  i cannot answer how safe it is to spay a female cat that has fip, but i do not think the risk is significantly elevated in female cats.  cats can get a number of coronaviruses, but covid-19 is not one of the ones that can infect cats or dogs.  this question is related to the corona part of your question: cat health consideration vs coronavirus  neutering a cat is a simple and easy operation that causes very little stress for the cat and your cat will not need any special care after this have been done. "
"will the internet and couriers be suspended  no. all essential services, including internet and courier services, will continue to function."
"will petrol pumps work  yes. petrol pumps, lpg/oil agencies will continue to function."
"griffin says to think of a mask as like underwear: it needs to be washed after each use.  you do not take this dirty mask off, put it in your purse and then stick it back on your face,  he says.  it is something that once you put on, is potentially either touching your coughs, sneezes or the spray of your speech, or protecting you from the coughs, spray, speech of other people. and now it is dirty. it needs to basically be either discarded or washed.  so if you are wearing a cloth mask, put it into the laundry basket immediately. if it is disposable, throw it away. it is a big no-no to pull the mask down to eat a snack, then pull it back up: you have just gotten whatever dirty stuff is on the mask on your hands and into your mouth."
"there are several points that you can improve in the code   wrong boundary conditions  your model is fixed to i 1 for time zero. you can either changes this point to the observed value or add a parameter in the model that shifts the time accordingly.  init  lt - c s   n-1, i   1, r   0     should be  init  lt - c s   n-infected 1 , i   infected 1 , r   0    unequal parameter scales  as other people have noted the equation     i     beta  cdot s  cdot i -  gamma  cdot i    has a very large value for  s  cdot i  this makes that the value of the parameter   beta  very small and the algorithm which checks whether the step sizes in the iterations reach some point will not vary the steps in   beta  and   gamma  equally  the changes in   beta  will have a much larger effect than changes in   gamma  .   you can change scale in the call to the optim function to correct for these differences in size  and checking the hessian allows you to see whether it works a bit . this is done by using a control parameter. in addition you might want to solve the function in segregated steps making the optimization of the two parameters independent from each others  see more here: how to deal with unstable estimates during curve fitting  this is also done in the code below, and the result is much better convergence  although still you reach the limits of your lower and upper bounds   opt  lt - optim c 2 coefficients mod  2 /n, coefficients mod  2  , rss.sir, method    l-bfgs-b , lower   lower, upper   upper,  hessian   true, control   list parscale   c 1/n,1 ,factr   1     more intuitive might be to scale the parameter in the function  note the term beta/n in place of beta   sir  lt - function time, state, parameters     par  lt - as.list c state, parameters    with par,   ds  lt - -beta/n   s   i  di  lt - beta/n   s   i - gamma   i  dr  lt - gamma   i  list c ds, di, dr           starting condition  because the value of  s  is in the beginning more or less constant  namely  s  approx n   the expression for the infected in the beginning can be solved as a single equation:    i   approx   beta  cdot n -  gamma   cdot i     so you can find a starting condition using an initial exponential fit:    get a good starting condition mod  lt - nls infected   a exp b day ,   start   list a   infected 1 ,  b   log infected 2 /infected 1       unstable, correlation between   beta  and   gamma   there is a bit of ambiguity how to choose   beta  and   gamma  for the starting condition.   this will also make the outcome of your analysis not so stable. the error in the individual parameters   beta  and   gamma  will be very large because many pairs of   beta  and   gamma  will give a more or less similarly low rss.   the plot below is for the solution   beta   0.8310849   gamma   0.4137507      however the adjusted opt par value   beta   0.8310849-0.2   gamma   0.4137507-0.2  works just as well:      using a different parameterization  the optim function allows you to read out the hessian   gt  opt  lt - optim optimsstart, rss.sir, method    l-bfgs-b , lower   lower, upper   upper,   hessian   true   gt  opt hessian  b  b 7371274104 -7371294772  -7371294772 7371315619   the hessian can be related to the variance of the parameters  in r, given an output from optim with a hessian matrix, how to calculate parameter confidence intervals using the hessian matrix  . but note that for this purpose you need the hessian of the log likelihood which is not the same as the the rss  it differs by a factor, see the code below .  based on this you can see that the estimate of the sample variance of the parameters is very large  which means that your results/estimates are not very accurate . but also note that the error is a lot correlated. this means that you can change the parameters such that the outcome is not very correlated. some example parameterization would be:     begin array     c  amp   amp   beta -  gamma     r 0  amp   amp   frac  beta   gamma   end array     such that the old equations  note a scaling by 1/n is used :     begin array  rccl  s  prime  amp   amp  -  beta  frac s  n  amp  i   i  prime  amp   amp    beta  frac s  n - gamma  amp  i   r  prime  amp   amp   gamma  amp i  end array      become     begin array  rccl  s  prime  amp   amp  -c frac r 0  r 0-1   frac s  n  amp  i amp    i  prime  amp   amp  c frac  s/n  r 0 - 1  r 0-1   amp i amp   underbrace  approx c i    text for  t 0  when  s/n  approx 1      r  prime  amp   amp  c  frac 1  r 0-1  amp  i amp   end array      which is especially appealing since you get this approximate  i  prime   ci  for the beginning. this will make you see that you are basically estimating the first part which is approximately exponential growth. you will be able to very accurately determine the growth parameter,  c    beta -  gamma . however,   beta  and   gamma , or  r 0 , can not be easily determined.  in the code below a simulation is made with the same value  c  beta -  gamma  but with different values for  r 0    beta /  gamma . you can see that the data is not capable to allow us differentiate which different scenario is  which different  r 0   we are dealing with  and we would need more information, e.g. the locations of each infected individual and trying to see how the infection spread out .  it is interesting that several articles already pretend to have reasonable estimates of  r 0 . for instance this preprint novel coronavirus 2019-ncov: early estimation of epidemiological parameters and epidemic predictions  http://doi.org/10.1101/2020.01.23.20018549       some code:                  library desolve  library rcolorbrewer    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/timeline of the 2019 e2 80 9320 wuhan coronavirus outbreak cases chronology in mainland china infected  lt - c 45, 62, 121, 198, 291, 440, 571, 830, 1287, 1975, 2744, 4515  day  lt - 0: length infected -1  n  lt - 1400000000  pop of china     edit 1: use different boundary condiotion    init  lt - c s   n-1, i   1, r   0  init  lt - c s   n-infected 1 , i   infected 1 , r   0  plot day, infected   sir  lt - function time, state, parameters     par  lt - as.list c state, parameters        edit 2  use equally scaled variables   with par,   ds  lt - -beta    s/n    i  di  lt - beta    s/n    i - gamma   i  dr  lt - gamma   i  list c ds, di, dr          sir2  lt - function time, state, parameters     par  lt - as.list c state, parameters               use as change of variables variable       const    beta-gamma        delta   gamma/beta       r0   beta/gamma  gt  1               beta-gamma   beta  1-delta        beta-gamma   beta  1-1/r0        gamma   beta/r0  with par,     beta  lt - const/ 1-1/r0    gamma  lt - const/ r0-1    ds  lt - - beta    s/n      i   di  lt -  beta    s/n -gamma    i   dr  lt -   gamma    i  list c ds, di, dr          rss.sir2  lt - function parameters     names parameters   lt - c  const ,  r0    out  lt - ode y   init, times   day, func   sir2, parms   parameters   fit  lt - out  , 3   rss  lt - sum  infected - fit  2   return rss         plotting different values r0    use the ordinary exponential model to determine const   beta - gamma const  lt - coef mod  2      rss.sir  lt - function parameters     names parameters   lt - c  beta ,  gamma    out  lt - ode y   init, times   day, func   sir, parms   parameters   fit  lt - out  , 3   rss  lt - sum  infected - fit  2   return rss     lower   c 0, 0  upper   c 1, 1     adjust limit because different scale 1/n      edit: get a good starting condition mod  lt - nls infected   a exp b day ,   start   list a   infected 1 ,  b   log infected 2 /infected 1     optimsstart  lt - c 2,1  coef mod  2   set.seed 12  opt  lt - optim optimsstart, rss.sir, method    l-bfgs-b , lower   lower, upper   upper,  hessian   true  opt      estimated covariance matrix of coefficients     note the large error, but also strong correlation  nearly 1     note scaling with estimate of sigma because we need to use hessian of loglikelihood sigest  lt - sqrt opt value/ length infected -1   solve 1/ 2 sigest 2  opt hessian              using alternative parameters      for this we use the function sir2       optimsstart  lt - c coef mod  2 ,5  lower   c 0, 1  upper   c 1, 10 3      adjust limit because we use r0 now which should be  gt 1  set.seed 12  opt2  lt - optim optimsstart, rss.sir2, method    l-bfgs-b ,lower lower, upper upper,  hessian   true, control   list maxit   1000,   parscale   c 10 -3,1    opt2    now the estimated variance of the 1st parameter is small   the 2nd parameter is still with large variance     thus we can predict beta - gamma very well   this beta - gamma is the initial growth coefficient   but the individual values of beta and gamma are not very well known     also note that hessian is not at the mle since we hit the lower boundary   sigest  lt - sqrt opt2 value/ length infected -1   solve 1/ 2 sigest 2  opt2 hessian        we can also estimated variance by      monte carlo estimation       assuming data to be distributed as mean  /- q mean    with q such that mean rss   52030                 two functions rss to do the optimization in a nested way rss.sirmc2  lt - function const,r0     parameters  lt - c const const, r0 r0   out  lt - ode y   init, times   day, func   sir2, parms   parameters   fit  lt - out  , 3   rss  lt - sum  infected mc - fit  2   return rss    rss.sirmc  lt - function const     optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const const  objective    getoptim  lt - function      opt1  lt - optimize rss.sirmc,lower 0,upper 1   opt2  lt - optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const opt1 minimum   return list rss opt2 objective,const opt1 minimum,r0 opt2 minimum        modeled data that we use to repeatedly generate data with noise opt par  lt - opt2 par names opt par   lt - c  const ,  r0   modinfected  lt - data.frame ode y   init, times   day, func   sir2, parms   opt par   i    doing the nested model to get rss set.seed 1  infected mc  lt - infected modnested  lt - getoptim    errrate  lt - modnested rss/sum infected     par  lt - c 0,0  for  i in 1:100     infected mc  lt - rnorm length modinfected ,modinfected, modinfected errrate  0.5   optmc  lt - getoptim    par  lt - rbind par,c optmc const,optmc r0     par  lt - par -1,   plot par, xlab    const ,ylab  r0 ,ylim c 1,1   title  monte carlo simulation   cov par       conclusion: the parameter r0 can not be reliably estimated        end of monte carlo estimation       plotting different values r0    use the ordinary exponential model to determine const   beta - gamma const  lt - coef mod  2  r0  lt - 1.1    graph plot -100,-100, xlim c 0,80 , ylim   c 1,n , log  y ,   ylab    infected , xlab    days , yaxt    n   axis 2, las 2, at 10 c 0:9 ,  labels c expression 1 ,  expression 10 1 ,  expression 10 2 ,  expression 10 3 ,  expression 10 4 ,  expression 10 5 ,  expression 10 6 ,  expression 10 7 ,  expression 10 8 ,  expression 10 9    axis 2, at rep c 2:9 ,9  rep 10 c 0:8 ,each 8 , labels rep   ,8 9 ,tck -0.02  title bquote paste  scenario is for different  , r 0   , cex.main   1     time t  lt - seq 0,60,0.1     plot model with different r0 for  r0 in c 1.1,1.2,1.5,2,3,5,10      fit  lt - data.frame ode y   init, times   t, func   sir2, parms   c const,r0    i  lines t,fit   text t 601 ,fit 601 ,  bquote paste r 0 ,      ,. r0   ,  cex 0.7,pos 4       plot observations points day,infected      how is r0 estimated   the graph above  which is repeated below  showed that there is not much variation in the number of  infected  as a function of  r 0 , and the data of the number of infected people is not providing much information about  r 0   except whether or not it is above or below zero .  however, for the sir model there is a large variation in the number of recovered or the ratio infected/recovered. this is shown in the image below where the model is plotted not only for the number of infected people but also for the number of recovered people. it is such information  as well additional data like detailed information where and when the people got infected and with whom they had contact  that allows the estimate of  r 0 .    update  in your blog article you write that the fit is leading to a value of  r 0  approx 2 .   however that is not the correct solution. you find this value only because the optim is terminating early when it has found a good enough solution and the improvements for given stepsize of the vector   beta,  gamma  are getting small.   when you use the nested optimization then you will find a more precise solution with a  r 0  very close to 1.   we see this value  r 0  approx 1  because that is how the  wrong  model is able to get this change in the growth rate into the curve.                   library desolve  library rcolorbrewer    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/timeline of the 2019 e2 80 9320 wuhan coronavirus outbreak cases chronology in mainland china infected  lt - c 45,62,121,198,291,440,571,830,1287,1975,  2744,4515,5974,7711,9692,11791,14380,17205,20440   infected  lt - c 45,62,121,198,291,440,571,830,1287,1975,   2744,4515,5974,7711,9692,11791,14380,17205,20440,   24324,28018,31161,34546,37198,40171,42638,44653  day  lt - 0: length infected -1  n  lt - 1400000000  pop of china  init  lt - c s   n-infected 1 , i   infected 1 , r   0     model function sir2  lt - function time, state, parameters     par  lt - as.list c state, parameters    with par,     beta  lt - const/ 1-1/r0    gamma  lt - const/ r0-1    ds  lt - - beta    s/n      i   di  lt -  beta    s/n -gamma    i   dr  lt -   gamma    i  list c ds, di, dr              two functions rss to do the optimization in a nested way rss.sirmc2  lt - function r0,const     parameters  lt - c const const, r0 r0   out  lt - ode y   init, times   day, func   sir2, parms   parameters   fit  lt - out  , 3   rss  lt - sum  infected mc - fit  2   return rss     rss.sirmc  lt - function const     optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const const  objective      wrapper to optimize and return estimated values getoptim  lt - function      opt1  lt - optimize rss.sirmc,lower 0,upper 1   opt2  lt - optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const opt1 minimum   return list rss opt2 objective,const opt1 minimum,r0 opt2 minimum        doing the nested model to get rss infected mc  lt - infected modnested  lt - getoptim    rss  lt - sapply seq 0.3,0.5,0.01 ,   fun   function x  optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const x  objective   plot seq 0.3,0.5,0.01 ,rss   optimize rss.sirmc2, lower 1,upper 10 5,const 0.35      view modnested      plotting different values r0  const  lt - modnested const r0  lt - modnested r0    graph plot -100,-100, xlim c 0,80 , ylim   c 1,6 10 4 , log   ,   ylab    infected , xlab    days   title bquote paste  scenario is for different  , r 0   , cex.main   1       this is what your beta and gamma from the blog beta   0.6746089 gamma   0.3253912 fit  lt - data.frame ode y   init, times   t, func   sir, parms   c beta,gamma    i lines t,fit,col 3     plot model with different r0 t  lt - seq 0,50,0.1  for  r0 in c modnested r0,1.07,1.08,1.09,1.1,1.11      fit  lt - data.frame ode y   init, times   t, func   sir2, parms   c const,r0    i  lines t,fit,col 1  modnested r0  r0    text t 501 ,fit 501 ,  bquote paste r 0 ,      ,. r0   ,  cex 0.7,pos 4,col 1  modnested r0  r0        plot observations points day,infected, cex   0.7    if we use the relation between recovered and infected people  r  prime   c  r 0-1   -1  i  then we also see the opposite, namely a large  r 0  of around 18:  i  lt - c 45,62,121,198,291,440,571,830,1287,1975,2744,4515,5974,7711,9692,11791,14380,17205,20440, 24324,28018,31161,34546,37198,40171,42638,44653  d  lt - c 2,2,2,3,6,9,17,25,41,56,80,106,132,170,213,259,304,361,425,490,563,637,722,811,908,1016,1113  r  lt - c 12,15,19,25,25,25,25,34,38,49,51,60,103,124,171,243,328,475,632,892,1153,1540,2050,2649,3281,3996,4749  a  lt - i-d-r  plot a -27 ,diff r d   mod  lt - lm diff r d    a -27     giving:   gt  const  1  0.3577354  gt  const/mod coefficients 2  1  a -27   17.87653    this is a restriction of the sir model which models  r 0    frac  beta   gamma   where   frac 1   gamma   is the period how long somebody is sick  time from infected to recovered  but that may not need to be the time that somebody is infectious. in addition, the compartment models is limited since the age of patients  how long one has been sick  is not taken into account and each age should be considered as a separate compartment.  but in any case. if the numbers from wikipedia are meaningfull  they may be doubted  then only 2  of the active/infected recover daily, and thus the   gamma  parameter seems to be small  no matter what model you use .  "
"are auto rickshaws allowed on the roads  yes, provided the drivers are willing to ferry passengers"
"data suggests droplets remain in the air up to 3 hours, and longer for droplet nuclei. where they go depends on the local temperatures, humidity and air flows.    the image shows a cough on the left and a sneeze on the right.     currently, the term droplet is often taken to refer to droplets  5 mm in diameter that fall rapidly to the ground under gravity, and therefore are transmitted only over a limited distance  e.g.   1 m . in contrast, the term droplet nuclei refers to droplets   5 mm in diameter that can remain suspended in air for significant periods of time, allowing them to be transmitted over distances  1 m  stetzenbach, buttner  amp  cruz, 2004  wong  amp  leung, 2004 . other studies suggest slightly different definitions, with ranges for  large  droplets,  small  droplets and droplet nuclei being  60 mm in diameter,   60 mm in diameter and  lt 10 mm in diameter, respectively  tang et al., 2006  xie et al., 2007 . the concept is that the naturally and artificially produced aerosols will contain a range of droplet sizes, whose motion will depend significantly on various environmental factors, such as gravity, the direction and strength of local airflows, temperature and relative humidity  which will affect both the size and mass of the droplet due to evaporation .   oops, breathing and talking can produce droplets yet health authorities continue to claim that masks are not needed  to stop wearers from broadcasting droplets into the environment     humans can produce respiratory aerosols  droplets  by several means, including breathing, talking, coughing  figure c.1, a , sneezing  figure c.1, b  and even singing  wong, 2003  toth et al., 2004 .   we are being told that the main droplets are the larger ones being emitted but talking for 5 mins can produce droplet nuclei the same as a cough    published data have suggested that sneezing may produce as many as 40 000 droplets between 0.5-12 mm in diameter  cole  amp  cook, 1998  tang et al., 2006  that may be expelled at speeds up to 100 m/s  wells, 1955  cole  amp  cook, 1998 , whereas coughing may produce up to 3000 droplet nuclei, about the same number as talking for five minutes  cole  amp  cook, 1998  fitzgerald  amp  haas, 2005  tang et al., 2006 . despite the variety in size, large droplets comprise most of the total volume of expelled respiratory droplets. further data on the behaviour of droplet dispersion in naturally generated aerosols are needed.   small droplets fall to the ground where they dry up before they reach the ground but some become droplet nuclei on their way down which allows them to remain airborne    in the classic study of airborne transmission, wells  1934  was able to identify the difference between disease transmission via large droplets and by airborne routes. wells found that, under normal air conditions, droplets smaller than 100 mm in diameter would completely dry out before falling approximately 2 m to the ground. this finding allowed the establishment of the theory of droplets and droplet nuclei transmission depending on the size of the infected droplet. the wells evaporation-falling curve of droplets  see figure c.2  is important in understanding airborne transmission and transmission by large droplets. wells  study also demonstrated that droplets could transform into droplet nuclei by evaporation.   and what happens to droplet nuclei    droplet nuclei floating on the air may be carried by the movement of air. entrainment of air into neighbouring airspaces may occur during the most innocuous daily activities  for example, as a result of people walking, or the opening of a door between a room and the adjacent corridor or space  hayden et al., 1998  edge, paterson  amp  settles, 2005  tang et al., 2005, 2006 . in addition, the air temperature  and therefore air density  differences across an open doorway will also cause air exchange to occur between the two areas, providing a second mechanism to allow air into other areas  tang et al., 2005, 2006   see figure c.3 .   which is why they use negative pressure rooms when doing a procedure that can form aerosols  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk143281/ "
"since the virus replicates via human cells, how do you expect it to proliferate inside a refrigerator  and if you had human tissue  lungs, hearts, kidney, bowel  in your fridge, it still needs to be alive to proliferate as it hijacks the living cells intra-cellular machinery.  so, you are not going to get any more virus out than you put in. therefore if you disinfect before you put it into the fridge, you will not get any virus out.  if you are talking about the infected deceased coming out of the mortuary fridge    there is no evidence so far of transmission of sars-cov-2 through the handling of bodies of deceased persons.  the potential risk of transmission related to the handling of bodies of deceased persons with suspected or  confirmed covid-19 is considered low and can be related to:    direct contact with human remains or bodily fluids where the virus is present    direct contact with contaminated fomites.    as viable sars-cov-2 may persist on surfaces for days  7 , there is the possibility that the virus also persists on  deceased bodies. therefore, unnecessary contact with bodies should be minimised by those not wearing personal  protective equipment  ppe . those in direct contact with deceased cases of covid-19  both suspected or  confirmed  should be protected from exposure to infected bodily fluids, contaminated objects, or other  contaminated environmental surfaces through wearing of appropriate ppe. minimum requirements include gloves  and a long-sleeved water-resistant gown.   http://www.ecdc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/documents/covid-19-safe-handling-of-bodies-or-persons-dying-from-covid19.pdf "
"that is the correct sequence for 2019-ncov. coronavirus is of course an rna virus and in fact, to my knowledge, every rna virus in genbank is present as cdna  agct, i.e. thydmine  and not rna  agcu, i.e. uracil .  the reason is simple, we never sequence directly from rna because rna is too unstable and easily degraded by rnase. instead the genome is reverse transcribed, either by targeted reverse transcription or random amplification and thus converted to cdna. cdna is stable and is essentially reverse transcribed rna.  the cdna is either sequenced directly or further amplified by pcr and then sequenced. hence the sequence we observe is the cdna rather than rna, thus we observe thymine rather than uracil and that is how it is reported.  "
"the coronavirus spreads primarily by droplets from your mouth and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. while  a recent study  http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852  suggested that gaseous clouds could travel up to 27 feet, six feet is the approximate range of larger droplets that are more likely to be infectious and is the  distance recommended by the c.d.c  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/how- covid- spreads.html cdc aa refval http 3a 2f 2fwww.cdc.gov 2fcoronavirus 2f2019-ncov 2fprepare 2ftransmission.html . our understanding about this strain of the coronavirus is constantly evolving, though. the  world health organization advises  http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel- coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public  at least 3 feet of distance."
"hei according to this article, the philippines react to the list provided by the who. on the who website you can get this worldmap with the updated cases and countries. this website gives you also a realtime overview band is backed by dadax, an independent company with no political, governmental, or corporate affiliation.  have a nice day and i hope i matched your question. "
"inflate balloons, and tie them   at their stem   like a bouquet of flowers. if you take four of them, not too much inflated, you well demonstrate a situation close to  sp 3  hybridization. these models equally work well in larger lecture halls by the way, and intentionally using different colors allows many options.     source      screen photo  you need some worked examples  see videos like this or this.  you need a scientific paper  well, there are as well, e.g., this  open access  expanding the picture to extended   pi -systems:     "
"you can not just  cancel because of coronavirus . if the airline is still listing the flight then you can only cancel on whatever terms you agreed to when you booked.  if your ticket is fully refundable then you can cancel and rebook, if you can actually get the refund. many airlines are refusing to pay refunds at present.   more likely, there will be some penalty for cancelling, which could be part or all of the fare you have paid. even with the price reduction, it is likely that you will end up paying more overall.  if you are hoping to get a full refund  as cash or voucher  then you will have to wait until the airline cancels the flight, in which case there will be no flight to rebook onto. "
"oh, gosh. well, you know, we are halfway through that 15-day period announced last week asking everyone to hunker down, stay home. and what anthony fauci, the top adviser, has said over the weekend is that the social distancing, all the measures we are taking - they will have an effect. but we just can not quantify the effect yet. i mean, how much we may be slowing the spread here is masked by the significant increase in cases each day, as you just mentioned at the top.  so you know, as testing expands, we are going to get this increase in cases. hard to see the progress here - it is likely going to be much, much longer before life feels like normal again, right  i mean, many schools have extended closures. there will be lots of distance learning going on. many scientists and public health experts watching china as the country lifts its restrictions. does the virus stay under control, or does it start to spread again  we can learn a lot by watching what happens there."
"did you contact them   they try to move the bookings, so that they have the money  liquidity  to pay employers. they could be in trouble if all clients will ask refund  there could ask government for help .  but you booking is a contract, so they are required to fulfill the contract on the data you both agreed, or they must refund you. just they try  maybe with a better offer  to keep booking  and money  for a later period.  the website booking.com does not get money from you  you will pay the hotel , so they have no really interest to have the  move booking  default.  so try to contact them, and think: do you want to book in a later date  in that case you may try to get a very good offer. but they must refund you.  the last step, it is to contact your credit card, and get the money back from them, because you were charged a service they will not offer you. "
"it applies to  california taxpayers affected by the covid-19 pandemic . according to this faq, you do not need to have been directly impacted by covid-19 to qualify. you qualify if you  experience any difficulty in filing or paying, as a result of covid-19 . admittedly, this is still vague. i believe that it is on the honor system. basically anyone in california who believes they experienced any difficulty with taxes can claim this 60-day extension. "
"there is value to getting tested because there are many reasons why someonewould seek medical care for their symptoms, and ruling out the coronavirus ishelpful in seeking other causes, said jason christie, chief of pulmonarymedicine at penn medicine. the biggest problem is we do not have a quick and reliable test right now.without that, we have to be smart and ration the testing to those people thatneed them most. so do not go out and get tested right now unless you are sick, christie said.testing also helps health officials figure out how prevalent and contagious avirus is."
"the primary benefit of covering your nose and mouth is that you protect others. while there is still much to be learned about the novel coronavirus, it appears that many people who are infected are shedding the virus - through coughs, sneezes and other respiratory droplets - for 48 hours before they start feeling sick. and others who have the virus - up to 25 , according to centers for disease control and prevention director dr. robert redfield -- may never feel symptoms but may still play a role in transmitting it. that is why wearing a mask even if you do not feel sick can be a good idea. if you cough or sneeze, the mask can catch those respiratory droplets so they do not land on other people or surfaces.  so it is not going to protect you, but it is going to protect your neighbor,  says dr. daniel griffin at columbia university, an expert on infectious diseases.  if your neighbor is wearing a mask and the same thing happens, they are going to protect you. so masks worn properly have the potential to benefit people.  the best masks are n95 respirators, but the general public is urged not to use them because they are fiercely needed by health care workers right now. if you have those, consider donating them immediately to a local hospital or find a drop-off here. same goes for surgical masks -- those thin blue models-- which offer less protection but are helpful and are also in short supply."
"the big difference in italy today is that many younger, otherwise healthier patients need critical care and more generally that patients need critical care for a long time. these patients are not necessarily dying after they get care, but the extent to which the surviving patients require ventilators and supplemental oxygen is nothing like a seasonal flu and is likely inflating the death rate substantially among those who could otherwise be treated.  from nejm: http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmp2005492    contributing to the resource scarcity is the prolonged intubation many of these patients require as they recover from pneumonia -- often 15 to 20 days of mechanical ventilation, with several hours spent in the prone position and then, typically, a very slow weaning. in the midst of the outbreak is peak in northern italy, as physicians struggled to wean patients off ventilators while others developed severe respiratory decompensation, hospitals had to lower the age cutoff -- from 80 to 75 at one hospital, for instance.  "
"   watching your balance go up and down can be scary. you may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions -- do not  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/coronavirus-401k-contributions.html   in fact, if your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you are at least saving as much as you can to get that  free money.  many components of the stimulus package, passed on march 27, include changes to rules regarding retirement account withdrawals, borrowing and penalties."
"at the moment, assuming you are not a us citizen or permanent resident, or in a fairly small set of other aliens, you cannot enter the us within 14 days of being physically present in the schengen area. if that restriction is still in place on june 10th, you will have to cancel or re-route your flight.  but who knows: in three months  time, maybe the schengen area restrictions will be lifted.   maybe india will have millions of infections and be added to the restricted list. it is impossible to say.  if i were you, i would just keep my plans in place and adjust them as necessary closer to the actual trip, based on the public health measures in place at the time. "
"it really depends on what types of meals you plan to make with them.  if you would typically serve people a whole breast, then i would cut each one down into more reasonable sizes  slice vaguely across the grain ... i usually start at the more bulbous end and slice diagonally through it so i end up with a chunk that is mostly from the thin end   for the size you are starting with, you might want to cut each one into 4 to 6 pieces. if you are planning on pounding them, i might even go with 8 to 10 pieces.  once they are a more reasonable size, you can then brine and bake them or pound them out, them like you normally would.  as you mention boiling them ... i would recommended poaching them instead. if you cut them up first, go with my original recommendation of an hour. if they went in whole, i might give it two hours. the technique that i mention is more like a slow cooker -- it is more forgiving and does not tend to overcook the outside before the middle is done  although, it can get fall-apart tender, and start breaking up as you try to fish them out with tongs. "
"frame challenge answer: you are jumping to the conclusion that they really hope the virus will  die out . but it is more likely they adopted those measures to slow its progression to a manageable degree. see e.g. this conceptual image from ecdc    even if there are new outbreaks of covid-19 in the future, when they happen is not irrelevant, as we could be much better prepared given the current/ongoing research on both  antiviral  treatments and possibly a vaccine as well.  regarding the  meat  of the question, it is a matter of probabilities, not certainties. it was and is generally assumed that other  bat etc.  coronaviruses will jump hosts to humans in the future.   besides sars, another  much  lesser known cross-species jump actually occurred in china in 2016 with sads-cov, which killed thousands of pig let s, but was not infectious to humans. annoyingly enough for the chinese pig farmers, sads-cov re-emerged in early 2019 despite the fact that there were no cases reported between may 2017 and january 2019. "
"of all the examples you name, i think only those on annual contracts have much of any risk and i think that is small. the world is not actually ending. universities still have their mission s : teaching, research, service. that will not change unless the disruptions are much worse than are now foreseen or even likely.   course delivery is being affected, but has not ended. research goes on, though interrupted/slowed in some fields for safety. funding for research is still in place and will probably continue. it will be a boon for some  biomedical  research.   some marginal colleges will be in trouble. think walden university from the doonesbury comic, but they were in trouble before this began. tenure track professors are unlikely to be affected because they represent the future of the university, not some disposable resource. postdocs have contracts and funding in place for the most part, often by grants.   there is even a chance that the current disruption will increase the need for faculty in the short term.   but for long term effects we need to see how the hundreds to thousands of variables now in play work out over time. and it will take time since universities have quite a bit of built-in inertia. whether  cheap online degrees  have any actual value is something yet to be determined. and they may not be as cheap as you think. some online programs are extremely expensive to create. and the issue of the actual qualifications of those who take them is important and, perhaps, doubtful.   but even if a university were to try to deliver such a  cheap  degree there is the question of still needing to do research and that requires highly qualified personnel. there is not a  cheap online research path  that has and likelihood of success.   diploma mills have a poor history, being more associated with exploitation than with excellence.   relax. stay healthy. do a good job. climate change is a bigger risk than what we are going through in the current months.     some people normally employed by colleges are at risk, of course. the people who clean the dormitories and prepare meals for resident students, for example. lots of service jobs are at risk. likewise, there are lots of small businesses in college towns that are at risk of failure, leaving their employees  including students  without resources.  "
"let  g i,j   be the gas consumed when travelling to destination  i  with car  j .  guess the optimal order   langle c 1, c 2, c 3  rangle  of cars  there are only  3    6  possible permutations .   define  opt i,j   as the minimum amount of gas needed for reaching the first  i  destinations using cars  c 1,  dots, c j  in this order, with the constraint that each car must be used at least once. if no feasible solution exists then  opt i,j       infty .  according to the above definition, you have   opt 1,j     begin cases  g 1, c 1   amp   mbox if   j 1      infty  amp   mbox if   j gt 1  end cases   .  and, for  i 2,  dots, n :     opt i,j    g i,c j    begin cases  opt i-1, j   amp   mbox if   j 1     min   opt i-1, j , opt i-1, j-1      amp   mbox if   j gt 1  end cases .    the solution to your problem is  opt n,3  , which can be computed in  o n   time using dynamic programming. "
"i would say that at least air france is being fairly up front in light of the  probable  fact that their cash flow does not suffice for the refunds that they are obliged to provide. if they had not come up with this voucher policy and instead decided to acknowledge their obligations up front, they would probably nonetheless drag their feet a year or more before actually giving you the money.  that said, the regulation does in fact specify reimbursement within seven days. so you could pursue them if you want to. short of hiring a lawyer, the regulation provides that you can seek enforcement through the national enforcement body designated under article 16 1 . a list of such bodies is found on the website of the european commission. "
"if you are planning to travel any country in spring 2020 please read more about corona virus .   who advisory q amp a on corona viruses current country-wise updates guardian live live view on map   now lets talk about nepal. currently there is not any positive case mentioned in nepalese citizens. nepal is not providing on arrival visas from march 5 to march 31 2020  can be extended  for china, south korea, italy, iran, hong kong. athough nepal is safe currently, if you are planning to travel nepal in spring 2020 please extend to autumn  "
"while looking for more examples of this process, i stumbled upon the answer.   why is harry reid always voting against his own plans     forty u.s. senators voted to block a final vote on chuck hagel is nomination to be defense secretary. of those, 39 were republicans opposed to the nomination, at least for the moment. the other was harry reid. it was not that reid opposed hagel -- far from it. ...    so what gives  in articles like the one i wrote on the hagel filibuster, the short explanation we give is that reid voted no  for procedural reasons  or because a no vote  allows him to bring another cloture vote in the future.  ...    as sarah binder, a senate rules expert at george washington university, told me, it is not that the majority leader has to vote no. it is that somebody on the winning side of the cloture vote -- in this case, the side voting against cloture -- has to file a  motion to reconsider  if the matter is to be taken up again.  i suppose the broader parliamentary principle here is that it would be somewhat unfair to give someone on the losing side of a question a second bite at the apple,  binder explains. so the rules provide for senators whose opinion has changed to motion for another vote, whereas those whose opinion stays the same do not get to keep filing to reconsider.    reid, and other majority leaders before him, have developed a clever workaround: just change your vote at the last minute if it looks as though you are going to lose, then move to reconsider. in theory, any supporter of the bill or nomination in question could do the same, but traditionally it is been the majority leader.   senate rules say that after a failed cloture vote  ie. the bill did not get the 60 votes needed to overrule a filibuster , a  motion to reconsider   that is, a second attempt at cloture  can only be called by a member of the winning side of the vote. "
"unlikely.  there are different viruses responsible for the symptoms grouped together as  common cold :  .....................................  : virus : incubation period :  :...............:...................:  : adenovirus : 4-8 days :  : coronaviruses : 2-5 days :  : rhinovirus : 2-4 days :  :...............:...................:      source: lessler, j., reich, n. g., brookmeyer, r., perl, t. m.,  nelson, k. e.,  amp  cummings, d. a. t.  2009 . incubation periods of  acute respiratory viral infections: a systematic review. the lancet.  infectious diseases, 9 5 , 291-300.  http://doi.org/10.1016/s1473-3099 09 70069-6   they all have been found to have an incubation period ranging from 2 up to 8 days. this includes  normal  infection, and i strongly doubt the strawberries will carry a lot more viruses than standard infections  see below . only 5  of cases will have an incubation period shorter than 20 hours. because they are distributed normally, it is very unlikely to have an incubation period of 3-6 hours, which is what you described.      it is important to wash all fruit and vegetables before you eat them to ensure they are clean and safe to eat.  most people are aware of the importance of handling meat safely, but many consider the risk of food poisoning from vegetables to be low.   it is a myth that a little bit of dirt does not do you any harm,  says dr andrew wadge, chief scientist of the food standards agency  fsa .   soil can sometimes carry harmful bacteria and, although food producers have good systems in place to clean vegetables, the risk can never be entirely eliminated.     source: nhs.uk   in the eu, imported fruits have a lot of regulations to match, and that they travel from the supplier to the consumer without being cleaned once is highly unlikely  still does happen sometimes, but highly unlikely . because the gems can be quite devastating and infectious, on should always clean vegetables to prevent those to spread, but it does not seem too dangerous missing one out.   also, think about exponential growth. if the amount of viruses in your body were doubled every 2 hours  i do not have any numbers for that, but anything above seems unlikely , and your incubation time was 30 hours earlier than expected, you would have to have taken in 215 more viruses than the normally infected.    most important:    since the virus is sensitive to ph and temperature, it replicates best below core body temperature and does not survive the acids found in the stomach, which means the virus does not infect the lower respiratory or gastrointestinal tract.    source: morgridge institute for research   this makes it even more unlikely, because the virus only has time to reach the nasal area until you have swallowed it.    bottom line: think about yesterday or the day before. with whom did you shake hands and touched your face afterwards without washing your hands  who did you stand next to that had a running nose  "
"coronavirus is a type of virus that causes disease in animals. often the symptoms of the virus are those of the common cold. covid-19 is a strain of coronavirus that is new to humans, hence it is called a novel  or new  virus."
"the risk of catching covid-19 from the feces of an infected person appears to be low. while initial investigations suggest the virus may be present in feces in some cases, spread through this route is not a main feature of the outbreak. who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share new findings. because this is a risk, however, it is another reason to clean hands regularly, after using the bathroom and before eating."
"anyone can get coronavirus.  any person who comes into close contact with someone who is infected is at risk for contracting the virus, according to the cdc.   black people can get coronavirus, just like other people,  said dr. jennifer caudle, an african-american family physician who has also been debunking coronavirus myths.   caudle said she worries that some people may not take proper precautions to protect themselves against the virus because they may have heard this myth.  in africa, the pandemic is gaining a foothold. so far, the virus has not spread in africa as quickly as it has on some other continents. but numbers there are rising fast."
"the wording states    ...or similar body recommending evacuation from the country    so although the fco might not have issued advice until later, the fact that the french government ordered all resorts closed should be sufficient.  so you need to find this advice from french government sources online, write back to your insurance company and be polite but firm and point this out to them. keep your letter short and to the point and state that you had no choice and the country was being locked down and all non-residents ordered to leave. therefore, according to the t amp cs of your policy you expect the claim to be honoured and paid in full asap.  also point them to this statement from the financial conduct authority: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/insurance-and-coronavirus-our-expectations  and this: http://www.choose.co.uk/news/2020/covid-19-insurance-policy-advice-government/  state that you are disappointed with their behaviour and are considering complaining to the insurance ombudsman. and will pursue the claim further if they do not pay.  if they still refuse, then your only option is to complain to the ombudsman and/or pursue them in the small claims court. "
"the most common symptoms of covid-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. some people become infected but do not develop any symptoms and do not feel unwell. most people  about 80   recover from the disease without needing special treatment. around 1 out of every 6 people who gets covid-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. people with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention."
"it depends. schools are closed for different lengths of time, and it is unclear when it will be safe to go back. some schools are trying learning-from-home programs, and others are offering free lunches for pick-up. ask your parents."
"as someone who is been out of academia for a while, i would like to offer a different perspective. yes, occupying your co-advisor is attention when the roof is on fire is tone-deaf. however: you have acquired skills that are obviously in high demand these days, and are thrown into a  hopefully  once-in-a lifetime situation to apply these skills. especially since you are not on a strict deadline with your thesis, there are now more important things than finishing the thesis at the scheduled time. see this as an opportunity, not an obstacle.  check if this is okay with your primary advisor, then send a mail to your co-advisor saying that you would be glad to put your thesis on ice and help her with her covid work if she has anything you could be of help with. if you are a capable student, she probably will.   then, when things have calmed down, reevaluate the situation, see what you have learned in the meantime, and continue from there. "
"from what i can find of official information, the czech republic has suspended the processing of visa applications and issuance of visa at the embassy in beijing and the consulates in china  shanghai, chengdu  and hong kong. it is worth to notice that this restriction affects also non-chinese residents of china, who are now also not able to apply for a visa.  some media have indeed reported that the visa ban applies to all chinese citizens, but there is no official information supporting that and i believe these reports to be mistakes. it seems very well possible for chinese citizens who are resident outside china to get a czech visa from the consulates at their place of residence and there seem to be no ban for residents of china to enter the czech republic if they are already in posession of a visa.  unless the czech republic is the main destination in the schengen area, it should also still be possible for chinese residents to obtain a schengen visa from other consulates and then use that visa for travel to the czech republic. it will probably have little impact on actual travel patterns for a single schengen country to impose restrictions as have been done here. "
"several studies have suggested that patients infected with the virus causing covid-19, and the related coronavirus infections  sars-cov and mers-cov  had good clinical outcomes, with almost all cases recovering fully. in some cases, patients were given an antiretroviral drug: lopinavir boosted with ritonavir  lpv/r . these studies were mostly carried out in hiv-negative individuals.it is important to note that these studies using lpv/r had important limitations. the studies were small, timing, duration and dosing for treatment were varied and most patients received co-interventions/co-treatments which may have contributed to the reported outcomes. while the evidence of benefit of using antiretrovirals to treat coronavirus infections is of very low certainty, serious side effects were rare. among people living with hiv, the routine use of lpv/r as treatment for hiv is associated with several side effects of moderate severity. however, as the duration of treatment in patients with coronavirus infections was generally limited to a few weeks, these occurrences can be expected to be low or less than that reported from routine use."
"not unless you are the one who is sick.  the cdc does not currently recommend any healthy person wear a mask and doctors warn fiddling with putting on and taking off a mask could backfire by exposing your hands to your face.   surgical masks fit rather loosely around the face and are not constructed, nor thick enough, to prevent infection,  schaffner said.  while they could have a modest benefit, any protection they provide is likely more psychological than scientific. n-95 masks, which hospitals use, are expensive and are not easy to wear, meaning they are not a practical option for everyday use. as health officials have noted, masks should be reserved for the health care workers, not the general public.  in recent weeks, n-95 masks have grown so scarce that the white house is asking americans who have them, as well as construction companies, to donate them to hospitals, so that health care workers are not forced to treat covid-19 patients without a mask, which puts them at risk for contracting the virus themselves.   the other thing a mask can do is give you a false sense of security, and that is not helpful,  said dr. michael merson, a visiting professor at nyu is school of global public health and a professor at duke university. masks work better at preventing people who are coughing and sneezing from spreading respiratory droplets and infecting others, but  those people who are sick should probably be at home anyway.   "
"does the lockdown apply to online shopping  yes. e-commerce of all essential goods, including food, pharmaceutical and medical equipment will continue to function."
"tax experts said that since advanced payment amounts are based on taxpayers  2018 or 2019 returns, people who have children in 2020 would receive payments this year that do not take into account the new children. however, the rebates are credits against 2020 taxes, so new parents will get the additional credit reflecting their children when they file their 2020 tax returns next year."
"here are the chief health officers  cho  i could find:   victoria - prof brett sutton new south wales - dr. kery chant queensland - dr. jeannette young tasmania - as it turns out, tasmania has a slightly different title that serves the same function. dr. mark veitch does everything a cho would do. see my link for more information. western australia - dr. andrew robertson south australia - professor paddy phillips. northern territory -  acting  di stevens australian capital territory  act  - dr kerryn coleman  "
the timatic news feed has a page dedicated to coronavirus restrictions. this information is provided by each national government to iata so that airlines can verify passenger documents and eligibility to enter or transit any given country.  currently for vietnam the restrictions are:    viet nam - published 19.02.2020      passengers who have been in or transited through china  people is rep.  in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter viet nam. this does not apply to passengers who travel for diplomatic or official purpose.      this does not apply to nationals of viet nam.  this does not apply to passengers who reside in viet nam.    passengers who travel for diplomatic or official purpose will undergo a medical examination at the border before allowed to enter viet nam.    
"who is working across the 3 levels of the organization  country, region and headquarters  to ensure that any advice intended to prevent the spread of the coronavirus and to guide covid-19 disease management is appropriate in malaria-affected settings.together with partners, who has also identified a set of inter-related actions that are needed to mitigate the impact of covid-19 in countries where malaria strikes hardest. the organization recently convened partners to discuss areasof collaboration and coordination, with the aim of:generating, using and disseminating accurate information  mitigating against health systems disruptions  and ensuring the continuity of routine malaria-specific services while also providing, in some settings, additional special measures.who stands ready to work with countries and other stakeholders to mitigate the negative impact of the coronavirus on malaria responses worldwide and, where possible, contribute towards a successful covid-19 response."
"this is honestly a huge topic, with literally reams of government guidelines on what is effective for surface disinfection. for example:   usda clean then sanitize fsis cleaning regulations 5 steps of cleaning and disinfection   so partly this depends on how sanitized you want things to be. for my part, i just clean my counters with a mixture of simple green  a concentrated organic soap  and water. if you are really concerned, you could do a second washing with a weak bleach solution  wear gloves  . "
"at least in italy, this appears to be in part a response to pressure from newspapers and their readers. on march 11th, the director of la repubblica newspaper carlo verdelli published  in italian  an article asking for newsagents to be included in the list of essential services, saying that  the list is missing a service that is more fundamental   now than ever before, that of information . he went on to state that  if  newsagents  were not included in the list, it would cause irreparable damage, not only for newspapers, but most importantly for the citizenry.   my translation   this is an important point, as a study undertaken by the pew research center in 2017 found that while tv and online media dominate, 31  of italians and 23  of french adults get their news from print media at least daily. this group is likely to be composed of older citizens who will be most affected if they contract the virus, and although this puts them at more risk if they leave their houses to buy a newspaper, it is of higher importance to keep at-risk groups informed.   in addition, another pew research center study found that newspapers were especially important for coverage of local news that would not otherwise be reported in alternative media - although the study was limited to the us, this is another potential factor that could have influenced the decision.  it seems that france and italy have decided that informing the populace is especially important in this time of crisis, and that this outweighs the threat public health and the potential spread of disease that the inclusion of newsagents as an essential service poses. "
"imported animals will need to meet cdc and usdaexternal iconexternal icon requirements for entering the united states. at this time, there is no evidence that companion animals, including pets and service animals, can spread covid-19. as with any animal introduced to a new environment, animals recently imported should be observed daily for signs of illness. if an animal becomes ill, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian. call your local veterinary clinic before bringing the animal into the clinic and let them know that the animal was recently imported from another country. this is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available."
"it seems that pretty much everything must now be done in virtual space. and, of course, this is hard to arrange in the short term. but in addition to videos, there is the possibility of software to provide hands-on simulation in some cases. it might be worth the effort in some fields to pair up  virtually  with a good programmer who can build quick simulations for student use. these can be refined later.   the really hard fields, though, are things like training surgeons, but even there, simulation can get you partway home.   some fields, maybe physics, already have a lot of simulation software that is normally used. so some people have experience building such things. see if your university has someone or can find someone to help.  "
"if you work in a city or state that requires sick leave and you use it, you can not be terminated or disciplined.   but there is no federal mandate that requires companies to offer paid sick leave, and almost a quarter of all us workers do not get it, according to 2019 government data. some state and local governments have passed laws that require companies to offer paid sick leave.  the family and medical leave act  fmla  can sometimes protect a worker is job in the event they get sick, but it will not guarantee they get paid while they are out.   employee advocates urge businesses to consider the special circumstances of the coronavirus, and some already have. uber and olive garden are two that recently updated their sick leave policies to adjust to the pandemic."
"first, a two hour time limit might be difficult to enforce or to guarantee, especially if it uses a real-time clock. at some level of scale you may start to find that some students did not get the exam paper or were unable to return it by the deadline. so, i would start by rethinking if a time limit of less than a day is really essential to your exam.   second, you can pre-vet any questions you ask by doing searching yourself online for possible answers and responses. reject questions that have too much online presence, or be prepared for getting that back as answers. presumably the test is not about effective online searches.   third, give up the idea of asking students for facts. that is obvious, i would think, as facts are cheap. but even facts requiring computation, such as in mathematics or statistics can be generated with tools such as matlab or mathematica.   the best sort of questions, i think, are those that require either or both of interpretation and insight. questions about the why of things rather than the what and how are much better. however, these are the hardest to create, the hardest to answer, and are likely to have the widest variation in quality from students. to grade them might require quite a lot of interpretation: does this student show any insight at all into the subject  pass-fail grading can be considered. repeat attempts can be considered.   as an alternative to an exam, you can consider individual portfolio development by students. students write or otherwise create some artifacts according to some criteria. plagiarism concerns come in to play here, of course.   i will note that honor codes can help to a certain extent, though provide no guarantees. and honor codes created in the moment are probably less effective than those of long standing.  "
"one that i know is niconicommons  japanese   sister site of niconicodouga, a japanese video sharing site . basically it is a site where users can upload and share resources/materials  image, sound, video, etc  for people to use.  you can browse all the audio materials, or search the one you want.      click advanced search button      input the tag or keyword in japanese      tick yin sheng  onsei, audio  only      press search button         alternatively, replace the  tag  or  keyword  from these url:   tag-only : http://commons.nicovideo.jp/search/tag/ tag  s d amp o d amp t 2 amp sc 1 keyword-only : http://commons.nicovideo.jp/search/keyword/ keyword  s d amp o d amp t 2 amp sc 1 tag  amp  keyword: http://commons.nicovideo.jp/search/hybrid/ tag / keyword  s d amp o d amp t 2 amp sc 1   example: list of jojo is bizarre adventure sound bites.  however, since these are all uploaded by users, you may not find what you want. you also need to have an account to be able to download, but the registration page is available in english. "
"community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected."
"i think the myth here is that an older aircraft is not safer because of wear and tear. that is not really true due to maintenance requirements. if you want to, you could fly in a douglas dc-3  1930s aircraft  today if you had enough time and money to find the operator. any aircraft can be operated if it is still maintained.  the reason aircraft get retired from commercial airlines is generally they become expensive to maintain, not because they stopped being airworthy. airlines do not buy one airplane, they buy a fleet, which includes the maintenance portion. the larger picture there is you need   trained pilots mechanics to repair them available parts   it is  3 that will eventually drive an aircraft out of general use. delta, which flies the md-80/88/90 series, is set to retire the aircraft in 2022.    delta will remove the md-90 two-years earlier than previous plans to  realize fleet simplification benefits,  said jacobson during the airline is second quarter earnings call on july 11. the airline will replace the aircraft with ones from its current orderbook, which includes 77 airbus a220s sic, likely a320  and 144 airbus a321s and a321neos, he added.    the early retirement of some md-90s was understood to be to support the in-service fleet, with parts from the removed aircraft available to support operational aircraft.   in other words, delta cannibalized some of its fleet for parts, and may be actively doing so with its rolling retirement. mcdonnell-douglass  who made the planes  is now owned by boeing, and production of the md-90 ceased in 2000. these planes can still be flown after delta retires them, but delta will have a hard time  i.e. expensive  sourcing new parts, which makes less sense for an active carrier airline operating thousands of aircraft around the world. other aircraft of similar size are in production and their parts are more plentiful.  the planes will be sold to secondary carriers. you might have seen one in the news recently, when the us government chartered a flight with kalitta air  likely operating a 747-400  to evacuate us citizens exposed to the coronavirus. these companies operate smaller fleets and, since they get cheaper used aircraft, the increased cost of finding parts will be offset.  tl dr  the boeing 777 is still in production. it is as safe as any aircraft in commercial airline use, regardless of age. "
"the flu and the coronavirus can cause similar symptoms -- a whole-body malaise, with a fever, a dry cough and a noticeable shortness of breath -- but    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/health/coronavirus-flu.html  there are differences  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/health/coronavirus-flu.html . because the symptoms are so similar, doctors will sometimes rule out the flu first. spring allergy season tends to trigger many of the same symptoms in many people, adding another diagnostic wrinkle."
the international monetary fund has said that it expects a global recession this year. china is economy is expected to contract in the first quarter for the first time since 1976 and growth estimates for the year have been slacked to around 2 per cent from 6.1 per cent last year. the us and european economies are also expected to contract starting in the second quarter. more...
"the decision may be out of your hands.  the u.s. state department has a level 4 global health advisory in place, which says that americans should avoid all international travel because of covid-19.   in countries where commercial departure options remain available, u.s. citizens who live in the united states should arrange for immediate return to the united states, unless they are prepared to remain abroad for an indefinite period,  the advisory reads.  the situation is fluid and rapidly evolving, so you should check the state department is website often and use that information to inform your decisions.  many countries experiencing outbreaks are implementing travel restrictions, mandatory quarantines and border closures with little advanced notice, and some americans traveling in those countries have found themselves stranded, without a way to get home.   if you are in a high-risk group, meaning you are an older person, or have an underlying medical condition,  you should now be thinking about social distancing,  schaffner advised.   part of that is thinking really hard about whether you need to get on an airplane,  he said.  i think this is a good time to postpone those trips.   even if your trip is to a low-risk area, traveling on a plane will mean being in an enclosed space with fellow travelers. the cdc now recommends that all travelers, especially those with underlying health conditions, avoid cruise ships."
no. who advice is that caesarean sections should only be performed when medically justified. the mode of birth should be individualized and based on a woman is preferences alongside obstetric indications.
it is ok to just not travel. there is no need to cancel the visa.  edit: the answer would be different if you intended to apply for another schengen visa applying for a schengen visa even though there  39 s still an existing unused visa 
"cdc is working with other federal partners in a whole-of-government response. this is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation and cdc will continue to provide updated information as it becomes available. cdc works 24/7 to protect people is health. more information about cdc is response to covid-19 is available online."
"for a single tax filer, the rebate amount reduces by  5 for every  100 of income over  75,000. so a single person with no children who had adjusted gross income of  85,000 in 2019, and has already filed a 2019 tax return, would receive  700.  keep in mind that phase-out of the credit is based on people is adjusted gross income, which does not include income put into pre-tax accounts such as traditional 401 k s. as a result, someone with an annual salary of  85,000 and no other income could have adjusted gross income of less than  85,000."
"you may travel on non-ed visa already issued.  if the  non-ed  visa itself is already issued in the passport, you will enter as normal and get 89 days   day of arrival permission to stay. make sure to have 20k thb equivalent in cash or traveler is cheques just in case immigration asks for proof of ability to support oneself.   enjoy your holiday.   related: will you be able to extend your permission to stay at a local immigration office   unlikely as you wouldnt have a school/event/etc. to give you a reason to extend.  "
"people are laid off all the time when sales are down, the market is bad, etc: there is no legal  right to a job  except whatever is in your employment contract. there is a legal concept of promissory estoppel which boils down to promises being binding. however, there has to be a clear and definite promise, not for example a statement like  we hope to bring you back after this is over .   normally, the employer can argue that they have the right to fire you regardless of performance, and that would be the end of it. let is say you have it in writing, and it is clear that they unconditionally promise to hire you back: you would want to  e stop them from arguing that they have the right to fire you. the underlying idea of promissory estoppel is that such a promise keeps them from making that argument. but: it is not enough that they made the promise, you also had to rely on the promise and act / forbear from acting in some way because of that promise. it could be, for example, taking another job, or moving to another country, or simply looking for another job. the hard part, then, would be getting a clear and definite promise. "
"yes  getting exercise outside is a great alternative to going to the gym, where touching high-contact equipment can pose a risk  if your gym is even still open . a  study last year found infectious germs  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc6339305/  on about a third of the surfaces at 16 different fitness facilities. exercise boosts our immune systems, and even a single workout can improve our ability to fight off germs,  according to the latest research  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/well/move/exercise-immunity- infection-coronavirus.html . even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea."
"taking one is temperature to look for signs of fever is not as easy as it sounds, as  normal  temperature numbers can vary, but generally, keep an eye out for a temperature of 100.5 degrees fahrenheit or higher. if you do not have a thermometer  they can be pricey these days , there are other ways to figure out if you have a fever, or are at risk of covid-19 complications."
"this is a difficult question, because a lot depends on    http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/20/us/coronavirus-model-us- outbreak.html  how well the virus is contained  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/20/us/coronavirus- model-us-outbreak.html . in places including china, singapore, south korea and taiwan, fierce efforts to contain the virus appear to have    http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/19/world/coronavirus-flatten- the-curve-countries.html  reduced the number of new cases  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/19/world/coronavirus- flatten-the-curve-countries.html . in the united states, forecasts differ depending on where you live. new york city, seattle, boston and parts of california already have such large outbreaks that they will probably see significant growth even after taking extraordinary preventive measures, according to columbia university researchers who used a new york times  database  http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us- cases.html  and census bureau data to model outcomes. some experts have    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus- shut-down.html  guessed, optimistically,  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus-shut- down.html  that the virus could abate in about two months, although that does not mean that public life would go back to normal. the more we take early precautions to protect our communities, like practicing social distancing, the better the results will be. if measures to slow the disease are not effective, the virus could sicken millions of people, losing steam on the coasts in may before spreading to the rest of the country over the summer. clinical    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/us/politics/coronavirus- vaccine-competition.html  trials for vaccines are underway  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/us/politics/coronavirus-vaccine- competition.html  in the united states, china and europe. but american officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away."
"at the moment, we do not know. it is a new virus, so experts are still trying to find out as much as they can about it. scientists are working on coming up with a vaccine for it though. once they have created a vaccine they will be able to treat it effectively. it is hoped there will be trials of a vaccine by the end of 2020."
"hand dryers can not kill the virus, according to who. the organization also says that uv lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of the body because the radiation can irritate skin.  drinking hot water or taking hot baths will not kill it, either."
"the short answer to this question is that 2019-ncov is new. all the other diseases you mentioned are known quantities: epidemiologists have a good idea how they behave, how they spread, what is likely to happen in a variety of different scenarios, etc. but this disease represents a new mutation that behaves differently from other coronaviruses. it is far more transmissible than other coronaviruses, and worse, seems to be transmissible through casual contact: not intimate contact, blood or fluid exposure, not through an intermediary vector like a tick or flea. currently the death toll is low, but researchers simply do not have enough data to know whether that trend will continue.   remember, the death rate of influenza is lower than that of this coronavirus. the 1958 and 1967 influenza pandemics had death rates of about 0.1 , and the 1918 pandemic had a death rate of about 2.5  . but those pandemics killed millions because they were so transmissible they infected hundreds of millions. if the coronavirus follows that pattern and turns pandemic, we might expect to see any city of a million or so people suffer 20,000 to 30,000 deaths over the course of a couple of months  say 400-500 per day , which is a huge number of people dying by any calculus. discretion is definitely the better part of valor, here. "
"there is no vaccine for the new virus and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-19, so treatment consists of supportive care to help relieve symptoms and, for severe cases, care to support vital organ functions, the cdc says.    about 80  of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment, according to the who. for most patients, that means drinking plenty of fluids and resting, just as you would for the cold or flu."
covid-19 case counts for the united states are updated regularly online. see the current u.s. case count of covid-19.
"the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there. for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19.covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go. who publishes daily updates on the covid-19 situation worldwide. you can see these at http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/situation-reports/"
"i found that your concern has not been answer at all. so, i do not know whether you have been to vietnam with your 15 days visa exemption or not. but as i know, via this link http://www.vietnam-visa.com/vietnam-visa-extension/, a visa exemption can be extended for up to 3 months. although now, due to covid 19, vietnam is temporarily closed to all incoming foreigners, i hope this piece of information will help in case you wish to visit vietnam in the future with visa exemption. "
"i think the claim about viruses always being destructive is not a good starting assumption for a question. for several reasons:   in the sense that op is probably considering, it is not true. counterexample, see below  and there are also other uses we put viruses to . in a wider sense, life is always destructive in that a living organism uses energy, substances, and space that otherwise could be used by another living organism. while we could debate whether viruses are alive or not, they certainly share these points. so a bacteriophage  see below  may be destructive to the bacterium it infects. but that bacterium dying means the  neighbor strain  that is resistant against this phage is thriving. so one organism is destruction eases the life of other organisms. in that sense, i consider the claim of desctructivity with  so, what         can we create a virus like a thing to work for good in our body   have a look at bacteriophages and phage therapy. bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria, and there has been research about using them against bacterial infections about 100 years ago, in parallel to the development of antibiotics.   besides political/language difficulties  bacteriophage research was strong in the soviet union, and in consquence lots of the research publications are in russian  back then antibiotics turned out to be easier and cheaper in practice  this may change with increasing antibiotic resistances, though .  antibiotics are produced by chemical synthesis or isolation from plant/fungi. they are chemical substances, so once we have studies that show that the stuff works as intended, product testing  only  needs to show that the correct modification of the correct substances is there in the correct concentration.   but the viruses are more-or-less alive, and in any case they evolve. so chemical substance testing is not sufficient, for each batch the biological activity must be checked and proved anew. this means a lot of expensive work for each batch of the virus. also, the bacteriophages are pretty much the opposite of a broad-spectrum antibiotic: they are not only species specific but also strain specfic  i do not know whether that is the case always, often, or sufficiently often to hinder practical application .  "
"one of the primary purposes of corticosteroids is to suppress immune activity and inflammation: that is exactly why they are used in asthma.  of course the immune system has an actual job besides causing nuisance inflammation: fighting infection.  for some infections, the harm to the infected person caused by the immune reaction itself is worse than that of the pathogen itself, so steroids can help prevent damage or ease symptoms while the immune system continues to mount a response, without being hyperactive.  for others, immune suppression may be detrimental.   corticosteroids mediate the immune response by suppressing a variety of cytokines and increasing others, which influences activity circulating numbers of different immune cell populations. cortisol binds the glucocorticoid receptor, causing numerous changes in gene expression, many of which are associated with the immune system. from wikipedia:     cortisol  inhibits production of interleukin  il -12, interferon  ifn -gamma, ifn-alpha, and tumor-necrosis-factor  tnf -alpha by antigen-presenting cells  apcs  and t helper  th 1 cells, but upregulates il-4, il-10, and il-13 by th2 cells. this results in a shift toward a th2 immune response rather than general immunosuppression. the activation of the stress system  and resulting increase in cortisol and th2 shift  seen during an infection is believed to be a protective mechanism which prevents an over-activation of the inflammatory response.   in other words, corticosteroids work by by suppressing the generalized killing/cleanup part of the immune system mediated by macrophages and cd8  cells, while preserving the b-cell part of the immune system that produces specific antibodies and the neutrophils that phagocytose antibody- and complement-bound pathogens.  immune reactions are incredibly complex, so some of these basics may be violated in certain circumstances  including prolonged rather than acute dosing , and i have left out a lot of the other related immune cells. see references below  and the wikipedia pages linked above  for more:    cupps, t. r.,  amp  fauci, a. s.  1982 . corticosteroid-mediated immunoregulation in man. immunological reviews, 65 1 , 133-155.  mcgee, s.,  amp  hirschmann, j.  2008 . use of corticosteroids in treating infectious diseases. archives of internal medicine, 168 10 , 1034-1046. "
"having a  conversation with everyone in your household  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/smarter-living/how-you-can-make- your-home-safer.html , particularly children, about what is going on is a good idea to help manage stress and keep everyone at home on the same page. maintaining your mental fitness, in addition to physical fitness, is also important. read a book, play a game, call a friend or just otherwise give yourself a break from the news to take care of your emotional and mental health. open your windows to let in some fresh air. to  improve your indoor air quality  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/climate/climate-pollution- coronavirus-lungs.html , turn on the ventilation hood above your stove and open windows when cooking, if you can. if you smoke or vape, you should try to quit, or at the very least limit second hand smoke in the house by stepping outside  while maintaining social distance . and if you can afford an air purifier, it might be a good investment as well."
"tl dr: there are not any tangible consequences, unless china or other countries decide to take any.    the world health organization is an agency of the united nations. but it does not have any legislative powers. its activities are limited to spending its budget on funding health-related research, spreading health information and funding healthcare projects which operate within the legal framework of the countries they operate in.   it might advise governments to take actions, like for example fund healthcare measures, discourage/promote products depending on their health impact, enact quarantines or discourage/promote certain medical procedures. but it does not have the authority to enforce any of those measures themselves.  now what exactly does it mean that the who declares a public health emergency of international concern  it is basically just a declaration, stating that the who believes that this is a problem people should take seriously. the who has done that 5 times before, each time in case of a global outbreak of an acute infectious disease:   2009  swine flu  2014  polio  2014  ebola  2016  zika  2019  kivu ebola   "
"first, let is address the biological point. china is not aresponsible  for this novel coronavirus or the pandemic it is generating. viruses are constantly mutating, and all it takes to begin an epidemic is for one person to encounter one animal that has a mutated strain of a virus, a strain which can jump species and start transmitting itself human to human. humans are social creatures  they will have social contact and pass the strain on to others. of course, being in a densely packed region with exposure to livestock increases the odds of that kind of encounter and maximizes the rate of transmission -- lots of people nearby to infect, so the disease does not have to work its way outward -- but that is a condition of poverty as much as anything else. people living on marginal incomes will pack together and bring their livestock with them, because they cannot afford the luxuries of personal space or shipped-in food.  and frankly, while poverty exacerbates diseases, it does not create them. the next pandemic could just as easily start because some well-to-do american on his country estate gets shat on by an infected bird. novel infections are a natural phenomenon. we are not immune to the workings of nature  despite our pretensions  so epidemics will happen on a rare but regular basis. blaming a particular region for a pandemic is like blaming your neighbor because you got crabgrass in your lawn. crabgrass does not know, or care, whose lawn it is.  this  neighbor  example is a good analogy for the problem this question faces. currently, all states are treated as sovereign, like a neighborhood of houses in which each homeowner has absolute say over what he gets to do with his house and yard. there is no overarching governance: no courts, no police, no administrators, no higher authority to appeal to, to force a neighbor to do this or that on his property. the un is like a town hall in which people come together to argue and make resolutions, but it has no real teeth except as individual sovereigns agree to abide by its decisions. this leaves only a few options on the table:   shrug and ignore what other sovereign homeowners do on their own turf, implicitly accepting the bad things that might float over the fence into one is own yard  i.e., the status quo . try to create agreements that commit all parties to certain kinds of behavior  i.e. pacts and treaties : a slow and difficult process to begin with, and one that any sovereign can back out of at any convenient-for-them time. restrict the ability of particular sovereign homeowners to interact with the community, in the hopes that deprivation will force them into compliance  i.e., sanctions, embargoes, etc. . create independent, unaligned groups that ask permission to enter another is sovereign territory to solve particular problems before they spread  i.e, ngo is and such . note that sovereign homeowners are under no obligation to allow such groups access, and can interfere with such groups  work in any way they desire. force your way onto another is sovereign territory to solve the problem against that sovereign is will  i.e., war .   so long as we maintain the decrepit ideal of sovereign nations, there is not much we can do to prevent the spread of a disease through a nation and across its borders. there is nothing at all we can do to prevent the birth of a novel disease. and unless we are willing to address underlying social issues like poverty and overpopulation, we are as much to blame as anyone else for pandemics of this sort, so there is no point in trying to collect  compensation  for some imagined wrongdoing we project onto others. "
"the novel coronavirus is dangerous for several reasons, even if the number of deaths have not matched that of the flu.  the first us case of coronavirus was reported in january, and the first us death from coronavirus was reported in late february. by april 9, the us had more than 456,800 cases of coronavirus, and more than 16,000 people have died.  since this flu season started october 1, more than 24,000 americans have died from the flu, according to cdc estimates. nationwide, the flu has infected at least 39 million people between october and late march.   but here are key differences when comparing the flu vs. coronavirus:     the cdc estimates for the flu go back to october 2019. but the first us case of coronavirus did not emerge until several months later.  coronavirus is twice as contagious as the flu. research indicates a person with the flu infects an average of 1.28 other people, cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. but with coronavirus,  it is likely between 2 and 3  other people.  coronavirus infections have a  very high mortality rate - one in six - among people who are over 80 and people with underlying chronic disease,  epidemiologist dr. abdul el-sayed said.   people with coronavirus might not get symptoms for 14 days, and some get no symptoms at all. but during that time, they are still contagious and can infect others unknowingly.   a vaccine is available for the flu, but no vaccine is available for coronavirus. experts say the number of flu deaths could be drastically reduced if more people got their flu shots. but about half of americans do not get vaccinated, including most children who die from the flu."
"vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and haemophilusinfluenzae type b vaccine, do not provide protection against the newcoronavirus,  according to the world healthorganization  http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public/myth-busters . the vaccines simply guardagainst those specific bacterial infections.the covid-19 virus can, in fact, cause pneumonia, but the vaccines cannotprevent this pneumonia."
"max rissuto from dfrlab has analysed this in an article published on march 17th which tests the media bias claims made by republican politicians including gop house leader kevin mccarthy, who tweeted that  democrats are trying to score political points by calling republicans racist  and that the  media called it  chinese coronavirus  for weeks . while mccarthy uses the term  chinese coronavirus , rissuto is analysis also includes the term  wuhan virus . it should be noted however that this analysis was performed on all english language publications, not just us-targeted media, and has only collected data up until march 10th.  dfrlab conducted a series of queries using a media monitoring tool to test the claim that media organizations are acting hypocritically in this way, gathering information about how geographic adjectives were used by the media to describe the disease before the official name of  covid-19  was applied by the who. this data is summarized in the chart below.    source:  maxbrizzuto/dfrlab   from this data, we can see that the terms  wuhan virus   amp   wuhan coronavirus  both had widespread use in english language media from the end of january up until the who named the disease on february 11th. the usage was comparable to the usage of the terms  china virus , and less commonly,  chinese coronavirus . after this date, we see the usage fall away dramatically, albeit not entirely, up until the recent debacle surrounding the use of geographic adjectives by various us and international politicians. this could also be due to the fact that as the virus spread throughout china, publications that would have used  wuhan virus  found  china virus  to be more accurate.  in conclusion then, while a significant proportion of articles used the term  wuhan virus  prior to naming conventions for the disease being established, after this point most media outlets switched to using the official terminology. the usage of the term has seen a resurgence in the media recently due in part to publications reporting on some politician is continued use of this terminology. "
"all individuals dealing with soiled bedding, towels and clothes from patients with covid-19 should: wear appropriate personal protective equipment, which includes heavy duty gloves, mask, eye protection  face shield/goggles , long-sleeved gown, apron  if gown is not fluid resistant , boots or closed shoes before touching any soiled linen.never carry soiled linen against body  place soiled linen in a clearly labelled, leak-proof container  e.g. bag, bucket if there is any solid excrement on the linen, such as feces or vomit, scrape it off carefully with a flat, firm object and put it in the commode or designated toilet/latrine before putting linen in the designated container. if the latrine is not in the same room as the patient, place soiled excrement in covered bucket to dispose of in the toilet or latrine  wash and disinfect linen: washing by machine with warm water  60-90degc  and laundry detergent is recommended for cleaning and disinfection of linens. if machine washing is not possible, linen can be soaked in hot water and soap in a large drum, using a stick to stir, avoiding splashing. if hot water not available, soak linen in 0.05  chlorine for approximately 30 minutes. finally, rinse with clean water and let linen dry fully in the sunlight.additional resources for best practices for environmental cleaning can be found in the following two documents: 1  infection prevention and control of epidemic-and pandemic prone acute respiratory infections in health care2  best practices for environmental cleaning in healthcare facilities in resource-limited settings which was developed by cdc and ican in collaboration with who"
"the seasonal coronaviruses attach exclusively to cells with a ciliated epithelium.     coronaviruses invade the respiratory tract via the nose. after an incubation period of about 3 days, they cause the symptoms of a common cold, including nasal obstruction, sneezing, runny nose, and occasionally cough  figs. 60-1 and 60-2 . the disease resolves in a few days, during which virus is shed in nasal secretions. there is some evidence that the respiratory coronaviruses can cause disease of the lower airways but it is unlikely that this is due to direct invasion. other manifestations of disease such as multiple sclerosis have been attributed to these viruses but the evidence is not clear-cut.    studies in both organ cultures and human volunteers show that coronaviruses are extremely fastidious and grow only in differentiated respiratory epithelial cells. infected cells become vacuolated, show damaged cilia, and may form syncytia. cell damage triggers the production of inflammatory mediators, which increase nasal secretion and cause local inflammation and swelling. these responses in turn stimulate sneezing, obstruct the airway, and raise the temperature of the mucosa.   so, the mechanism of infection is such that they only attack the upper airways.  the sars-cov-2 is totally different. it attaches to the ace2 surface receptor which is found deep in aleolar pneumocytes. their damage causes loss of surfactant in the alveloi, the collapse of these air cells that perform oxygen exchange and subsequently ards.  so, seasonal coronaviruses give you a runny nose but do not kill. sars-cov-2 collapses your air cells so you do not have any oxygen.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk7782/ "
"the main problem is that there is no court with authority to hear this case outside of china. it may be futile to sue in us courts, since china will not enforce us judgments. you can sue a chinese company in chinese court, under their civil procedure law, but this pertains to contract breach. the question is whether there is any law under which the government of china can be sued for negligence - it is unlikely that that is possible  perhaps there is an expert in chinese law here who can address that issue .  this lawsuit is filed in us courts. it is based on the foreign sovereign immunities act. supposing that this lawsuit is successful in us courts, then the question is what enforcement actions are possible. since the defendants are various governments and government agencies in china, execution of the judgment would have to be against those defendants - you can not seize the assets of every person with some connection to china. but given the nature of the chinese government, it is possible that us courts could find that the assets of chinese companies are effectively government assets.  the short answer is, in fact a lawsuit has been filed, and i expect more. i also do not expect them to succeed in the long run. "
"if you are symptom-free, you are required to self-isolate on arrival at your final destination.  source: http://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/diseases/2019-novel-coronavirus-infection/latest-travel-health-advice.html domestic  as of march 30, 2020, all passengers flying in canada will be subject to a health check prior to boarding. you will not be permitted to board if you:    show any symptoms of covid-19 or have been refused boarding in the past 14 days due to a medical reason related to covid-19 or are subject to a provincial or local public health order   this also applies to travellers arriving from outside canada.  if you are arriving from outside canada and are deemed safe to fly, you may board a connecting flight to your destination. however, upon arrival at your final destination, you must go directly to the place where you will isolate, and remain there for 14 days. this is because you are still at risk of developing symptoms and infecting others.  you may be subject to additional provincial or territorial public health measures at your final destination.  if you have symptoms of covid-19, you will not be allowed to board any flight until:   14 days have passed, or you present a medical certificate confirming that your symptoms are not related to covid-19   if you have signs or symptoms consistent with covid-19, you will not be allowed to use public transportation to travel to the place where you will isolate. "
"your interpretation seems to be correct. a furloughed employee is defined by acas to be one who is  temporarily sent home because there is no work . this could in principle be through unpaid leave.   the coronavirus job retention scheme is a government scheme to compensate employers for the wage bills of their staff during the furlough, so that the furloughed staff can continue to receive some income. an employee would have no direct dealings with the scheme and would continue to be paid via their employer.   your company seems to be offering to match the terms offered to employees under the coronavirus job retention scheme of 80  of salary, presumably out of their own funds. a kind gesture, it seems  "
will i be able to leave my city/state  several states have sealed their borders and only essential services and emergency cases are being allowed to cross. travel only if you must.
"i think these countries are in fact approaching this as a problem that has an obvious solution, as you suggest. the issue lies, however, with convincing their populace to work these seasonal jobs, and the inherent nature of seasonal agricultural work.  firstly, the levels of unemployment are not necessarily going to be as bad as you might think, at least in some countries. many western countries, including norway, which you mention, and later, the uk, have implemented schemes which will allow companies to keep employees who have been furloughed due to the crisis on the payroll by covering a large portion of their wages. these schemes do not stop claimants from taking another job, at least in the uk is case, but potentially reduce the need for them to do so.  secondly, the nature of this work means that for this to be a long-term job choice, workers need to be flexible and able to travel around the country. the bbc points out that     one reason overseas workers are recruited for these picking roles is  that farmers require temporary, flexible workers who will move around  the country following the crops.  it is often difficult for local people to fill these roles as they are  extremely busy for a short space of time - for example, two months to  pick apples - with no work for the rest of the year.   so while it might be easy to find workers in one area of the country, it is currently infeasible given the covid-19 crisis for workers to travel around the country as previously. therefore, a much larger number of local workers need to be found in order to meet with local demand, rather than smaller groups of seasonal workers meeting the demand nationally.  additionally, western europeans are unused to this sort of work. according to the independent:    it is fair to say that british workers have turned their noses up at  seasonal farm work in recent years, perhaps partly due to the  availability of other, more secure jobs in more comfortable  surroundings.     it is hard work and the eastern europeans are experienced at what they  do,  says oliver shooter, owner of ae lenton, which runs a group of  farms between skegness and boston in lincolnshire, the centre of  england is vegetable production.     it is not rocket science but it is quite a skilled job that these guys  do,  he says. a top picker needs to know and apply supermarkets   exacting standards for exactly how fruit and veg must look, as well as  how to cut it and pack it. for that they will earn ps12 an hour if  they are good. many farms also provide free or subsidised  accommodation.   the seasonal workers that farms usually rely on, that know their trade and are experienced are unable to be used, so farmers are again being forced to engage a larger workforce than normal, in order to achieve a similar standard of work. this will, of course, entail higher costs, a longer training period, and presumably, a lower yield as mistakes are made.  governments are trying to deal with this problem by pushing the solution you suggest - the independent reports again:    so acute is the need that the government is reportedly readying its  own  pick for britain  campaign taking inspiration from the land army  that tilled the fields during the second world war.   in norway, the government has introduced a scheme which will encourage employees laid off by their employer to work in agricultural roles:    new legislation means that if a worker is laid off and takes up an  agricultural role, he or she will be able to earn both a salary from  the farmer as well as half his or her unemployment benefit.   it is not so much that the solution to the problem is not obvious, it is that due to a combination of the nature of seasonal agricultural work, and the complications introduced by the current crisis, the problem is harder to solve than at first glance. "
"i am an associate editor for two journals, and although the situation is fairly new, i expect to have no substantive change in the time for me to handle papers.  the reasons for this are:   pretty much everything is handled purely electronically anyway, so there is no physical interaction to be disrupted. reviewing is typically a sparse activity by people who are mostly always overloaded anyway, and it is always fairly low triage for people. as such, i do not anticipate the availability of reviewers to particularly change: if people have more time, they will fill it with things more important to them  if people have less time, i will just have to ask a few more to find a full reviewer set. the time to review is typically dominated by the time that a manuscript ages quietly on the reviewer is desk before the review deadline arrives --- actually carrying out a review often does not take all that much time, by comparison. the number of weeks we give our reviewers is not going to change, so that dominating time will not either. because of the preceding factors, there is already a lot of stochasticity in time to review. even if it does go up a bit, i doubt it will be readily detectable against the background of stochasticity.  "
"you should do none of these things and we should not all be scared. this would be panic reaction.  you have not said in which country you are studying, but the health authorities of most governments have issued official advice to their citizens which you should follow. most institutions, such as universities, will also have issued official advice which you should also read and follow.  if you are in the uk the department of health has provided advice to uk universities.  if you wanted personal action, using hand cleansing gel dispensers provided by the university will reduce incidents of cross contamination and ensure regular hand-washing is your best defence. "
"the linked post  which reads to me rather like rant than a news post  not the underlying cnn article indiate that the manufacturer actually applied for fda eua  emergency use approval . without such an application, there  rather obviously  will not be an approval.     was the test evaluated by the fda     the clinical evaluation needs to be done by the manufacturer, not by the fda. the fda then evaluates the results submitted by the manufacturer with ther eua application.  the test is not on the fda page that lists approved tests. we do not know why. e.g., whether they it did not pass the fda eua requirements  i would think that unlikely  or the manufacturer never applied  which may be totally sensible for several reasons, e.g. if their manufacturing capactity is such that all the tests they produce are bought, say, in east asia      what rigors did fda approval of the roche covid test meet      see the fda faq on getting eua and requirements for using a test even before that eua is in place on the general requirements and  the roche test manufacturer is instructions listing their validation results in particular. fda explicitly says that they want the manufacturer to be in early contact with them.      a few more thoughts:   it is not only the test kit that needs approval, the test kit gets approved for use with certain extraction equipment  manufacturer  amp  possibly model  and also the lab needs certain approval. it may be that in east asia different machines  other manufacturers  are used, so that the south korean approval cannot be used for evaluating performance with the machinery predominantly used by us labs. the first eua for the cdc covid test was granted by the fda on feb. 4th. i.e., one day before seegene had their first test kit according to the cnn post and thus more than a week before the seegene test got south korean fast-track approval.  that such a test with fast track validation may turn out not to be that great after all is a known risk which is accepted in the current situation in order to have tests available at all. we still would not expect faulty reagents in the test kit, though.  theres nothing that unique about the south korean test manufacturer. there are other manufacturers and also ones that were apparently even earlier  sent out first  unapproved  tests on jan 10th  than the south koreans, see e.g. this new post about a berlin manufacturer of such tests  in german . this news post reads very similar to the south korean, just with a different company. we also do not know yet how long/where which test will perform well as mutations of the virus will happen - and they may affect the performance of some tests but possibly not others. the berlin test manufacturer discusses this in another newspaper article/interview. afaik, other test kits also do not require manual pcr - whether in some countries the testing is done manually because the local approved labs do not have automated extraction/pcr machinery in place is a totally different question.   "
"there is no loan here. what is happening is a buyback to inject money into the system  emphasis mine     today the fed announced a  1.5 trillion liquidity provision to the interbank lending market -- primarily in the form of  repurchase agreements.  the interbank lending market comprises the federal-funds market  in which the fed actively participates on a daily basis  and the repurchase-agreement  or  repo   market  in which the fed intervenes primarily when there is a lack of liquidity . in the repo market, one financial institution temporarily trades securities to another institution, with the understanding that it will repurchase those securities in the near future  usually the next day . banks with large balance sheets often need access to quick cash to conduct regular operations, and the most practical way to get that cash is through repos. otherwise, managing their balance sheets would be needlessly onerous.    and     the federal reserve  is engaging in short-term transactions with banks to ensure financial stability. if the fed bought your house today and sold it back to you tomorrow, it would not be doing you a huge favor. the fed is intervention in the repo market, while a boon to the u.s. financial system, is far from a handout.   "
"i am not venturing a speculation here  yet  whether that was a loosening  of the language  or not relative to prior communications on this matter, but the fuller context of that recent statement is:    mr hancock - who recently ended his seven days of self-isolation after contracting the virus - said:  we cannot relax our discipline now. if we do, people will die.     i end with the advice we all know. this advice is not a request - it is an instruction.     stay at home, protect lives and then you will be doing your part.      bbc subheading:  istay at home for nurses     ms may also appealed to the public to stay at home, saying:  this weekend is going to be very warm and it will be very tempting to go out and enjoy those summer rays.     but please, i ask to remember aimee and areema. please stay at home for them.    aimee and areema are two  young  nurses who recently died after contracting the new coronavirus.  the evening standard has chosen to headline that announcement as     matt hancock orders brits not to break coronavirus lockdown during weekend heatwave: if we relax our discipline people will die   the telegraph headlined their youtube video of that press conference with      good weather no excuse to break coronavirus social distancing rules , says matt hancock   so a reasonable-enough interpretation seems to be that it is not a relaxation of the prior government stance. i do not know if some left-wing press has tried to spin this into something else. i have searched a bit but could not find such attempts/articles, so  it is probably just you r interpretation  . "
"for how long will the lockdown continue  a majority of the states have issued guidelines until march 31, however, there are some instances where advisories have been issued for shut down of services till mid-april."
"in the u.s., influenza has caused 12,000 to 61,000 deaths annually since 2010, according to the cdc. so far this flu season in the u.s., there have been at least 38 million flu illnesses, 400,000 hospitalizations and 24,000 deaths from flu, according to the cdc."
"if you can lose 20  and still make the balloon payment then only risk the 20 . based on your question you can set aside 1,200 a month for the next 15 months. since 20  of 15 months is 3 months take the next three months payments and invest it in a etf or mutual fund. the remaining 12 months keep it safe in a bank or cd.  you can do this because you already have an emergency fund, and you believe your job is secure. if you did not have the emergency fund you would send the extra amount there. if you were worried about your job you would not want to tie up money you might need soon.   of course if you can save interest by making the balloon payment early, i would wait until the last 3 months to invest, and make the balloon payment as soon as possible or even make a larger monthly payment. "
"update 12/03/20: the usa is now refusing entry to anyone coming from europe, for 30 days. so you will not even make it to atlanta.     according to the link to the embassy you provided you will be denied entry to jamaica. this will most likely already be executed by klm staff in frankfurt. this means you will be denied boarding in the first place.  the only exception would be if you are  also  a jamaican citizen. you did not mention when you are flying, so if your flight is only going to be in a few weeks or even days, the situation might have changed completely. then you just have to wait and go an a day-by-day basis and see what the embassy has to say.  as per your suggestion that you could still only travel to atlanta, i suggest you search for  skipping one leg of a journey  here on this site. this usually always turns out bad  especially for a possible return flight which will be cancelled by the airline . since in the us you always have to check your bags again on an international transfer, you could get your bags at least and given the right esta/visa for the us you could leave the airport and wait two weeks there. two weeks would be the minimum period you would have to wait before being allowed entry into jamaica. you would then have to buy a new ticket to jamaica, of course and your return flight would have been cancelled and you would have to buy that one again, too.  with all this said, it might be best to call the airline  delta in this case, since you booked with them  and see if they can give you a  full  refund. "
"it is not a case of paired nominal data. hence, mc nemar is test can not be applied to check whether there is a higher fatality rate in philippines  . the fatality rate is given for philippines and world   excluding philippines  . as defined, it is expressed as proportion. therefore, t-test/z-test shall be appropriate given that you meet other conditions such as sample-size. "
"yes. close contact and early, exclusive breastfeeding helps a baby to thrive. you should be supported tobreastfeed safely, with good respiratory hygiene  hold yournewborn skin-to-skin, and share a roomwith your babyyou should wash your hands before and after touching your baby, and keep all surfaces clean."
"this question makes a number of incorrect assumptions and i do not have time to correct them. the short answer is that the virus has mutated probably hundreds of times since it entered humans in late 2019.   the lower figure on the nextstrain.org ncov page,  diversity , shows the known mutations that have been identified so far. as i look at it now, there are maybe 100-200 shown there, but that will change daily and i can not be bothered to count them.  is it possible the virus has mutated twice in a period of time of months  of course it is. that is what we expect from coronaviruses. it would be shocking if it did not.   the default assumption  based on a vast amount of experience with coronaviruses and many other viruses  is that these mutations are neutral and do not affect the virus in terms of fitness, virulence, or transmissibility in any way  they are occasionally useful in tracking sources, but unless you have spent a lot of time looking at virus phylogenetic trees for several years, your interpretations of these mutations are almost certainly wrong.  an example of people making claims based on unfamiliarity with virus evolution is the  two different types of the virus  claim. that claim is addressed by maclean and colleagues in their response to  on the origin and continuing evolution of sars-cov-2 . summary:    two of the key claims made by this paper appear to have been reached by misunderstanding and over-interpretation of the sars-cov-2 data, with an additional analysis suffering from methodological limitations  "
"this has been explored by berens et al.  1 , from the reputation institute, the publishers of the annual reptrak country reputation rankings. in their chapter in the international place branding yearbook 2011, they provide an overview of their methodology, which seeks to measure a country is reputation in much the same way that one might measure the reputation of an individual or a company.   they argue that this reputation is linked intrinsically to the overall international trust of a country, something which is backed up by klewes  amp  wreschniok  2 , which states that the link between reputation and trust is  fundamental and indispensable , arguing that   trust is based on the experience that an agent has fulfilled our expectations in the past.   they list 11 different attributes, which fit into three different dimensions. these are:   advanced economy   an important contributor to global culture is technologically advanced is inventive produces high-quality products and services  appealing environment   offers appealing lifestyle an enjoyable country a beautiful country  effective government    offers a favorable environment for doing business has adopted progressive social and economic policies is a responsible participant in the global community is run by an effective government    the testing methodology consisted of a large random sample  n 26,000  of consumers in the g8 countries, combined with an additional sample  n 19,000  from the country in question drawn from its own citizens. responses were adjusted to take into account general per-country bias - for example, respondents from greece generally will have a good opinion of cyprus.  a further dimension which was measured was  supportive behaviors . this measured the willingness of consumers to visit, live in, invest in, work in, and buy products from the country.  in conclusion then, while the study in question is conducted by surveying populations, it seems possible that a similar study could be conducted which measures at least some of these criteria objectively. certainly, factors such as  willingness to invest  and  technological advancement  could be measured using economic data. however, it would seem that the best way to measure the reputation of a country will probably be to survey the opinions of global respondents through large-scale polling, as the factors that the study found had the most effect on a country is reputation were attributes such as  offers an appealing lifestyle ,  is a responsible participant in the global community , and  is a beautiful country , which would seem to be more abstract factors.  citations   1 : berens g., fombrun c.j., ponzi l.j., trad n.g., nielsen k.  2011  country reptrak tm : a standardized measure of country reputation. in: go f.m., govers r.  eds  international place branding yearbook 2011. palgrave macmillan, london   2 : klewes j., wreschniok r.  2009  reputation capital building and maintaining trust in the 21st century. in: klewes j., wreschniok r.  eds  reputation capital. springer, berlin, heidelberg "
"ok, the service area is likely many hundreds of thousands for the u of washington and for certain patients covers a five state area. the detection rate for a tertiary/quaternary referral center reflects the patient selection process, same criteria for referring patients in distress might lead to same detection rate. however, more precisely one cannot make inferences on that basis because the criteria for patient selection for testing is an uncontrolled variable.  to explain this a bit more, a primary or community hospital would refer patients to a larger regional hospital which refers patients to a specialized tertiary care hospital, and for certain problems, tertiary care hospitals would send patients to a quaternary care facility. even more complicated, a local physician in the community, might refer a patient directly to a quaternary care facility, or the patient might walk in to the emergency room off of the street. so, there are so many confounders that any correlation you might make risks being spurious. btw, the raw data you linked to was not organized for peer review, i review for 17 medical journals, and i am telling you as simply as i can that without controlling for the referral pattern, there is only limited use for the raw data. "
"there is no proven cure for the coronavirus. but that has not stopped people  and some businesses  from claiming to have found one. despite what you may have read online: gargling with warm water will not keep you from getting the coronavirus. neither will elderberry syrup or colloidal silver. essential oils are not a good substitute for hand sanitizer. the authorities are cracking down on those seeking to capitalize on peoples  fears and anxieties right now. the f.d.a.  sent warning letters  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/09/health/fda-letter-coronavirus- cures.html  to at least seven companies telling them to stop advertising fraudulent cures and treatments. the new york state attorney general ordered alex jones, the conservative radio host, to stop claiming that his diet supplements and toothpaste could be used  to fight the coronavirus  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/nyregion/alex-jones- coronavirus-cure.html ."
do i need to stock essential items  no. you do not need to stock essential items. there is enough stock available in the market and hoarding it will not be useful.
"yes:    coinfections involving multiple hcovs were also detected  table 2 .     ...        human coronaviruses hcov-nl63 and hcov-hku1 in hospitalized children with acute respiratory infections in beijing, china, advances in virology  2011   "
"should you get tested for covid-19 if you have a mild cold  even if you have a fever, cough, severe cold or sore throat, you do not need to get tested for covid-19. but if you have travelled to a covid-19 affected country or have come in close contact with a person who has been laboratory-confirmed to be covid-19 positive then, if you fulfil these two additional criteria, you need to get tested for covid-19. for common cold one only needs regular treatment."
"i must say that nobody knows what is going to happen and that the situation is developing quickly in europe.  first i would suggest that you talk to your airline. normally if you miss a single segment then the whole rest of your trip  including your return  would be cancelled automatically.  given the circumstances then the airlines are generally being very flexible, but you must first check what they will and will not allow and then change your itinery accordingly and not just not take a flight.   next  or in parrallel  i would suggest contacting your local finnish embassy and explaining the situation. tell them that your schengen visa was issued by norway, that you are flying via helsinki anyway and would now like to spend the enture trip there rather than the couple of days you previously planned. and then ask if they would, given the circumstances, allow you to enter and remain therer for xx days.  it really depends on how flexible they are. they might allow this. they might say that you should get a new visa issued. they might reduce or waive the cost. but you should check first.  if i was you, i would also consider making alternative plans. talk to the airline about rescheduling the trip, as it is likely that they will allow you to do this free of charge at the moment.  only you can judge if this is a worthwhile trip for you given the cirumstances. my personal opinion is that the next two weeks are going to get worse, and it will be awhile before the situation improves.  "
"you might be out of the period when you can request a chargeback, but you can still contact your credit card provider and require them to honour their obligations under section 75 of the consumer credit act if the cost was more than ps100, as there is no time limit on that. "
"it is not completely up to you.  the cdc recently rolled out new guidance, allowing anyone to be tested for covid-19 without restrictions, as long as their doctor approves. testing is on the rise in the u.s., but experts say it is not yet enough.  if you have traveled to an area with local transmission or have been in close contact with someone who has been exposed to the virus, and develop symptoms, such as cough or fever, your health care provider can work with the local health department to determine whether you should be tested for covid-19.  if you have symptoms, but no travel history to an outbreak area, you could go to a clinic and have a rapid test done to rule out more common viruses, such as influenza, merson advised.  if you have mild symptoms and are worried that you might have covid-19, call your doctor or local health department instead of going to a clinic or doctor is office without an appointment, to ensure you are not potentially exposing others to the virus. if you have severe breathing problems, seek medical attention or call 911 immediately, recommends dr. jennifer ashton, abc news  chief medical correspondent.  you should let the person you speak with know that you have respiratory problems and need to be isolated and seen right away."
"yes. women with covid-19 can breastfeed if they wish to do so. they should:practice respiratory hygiene during feeding, wearing a mask where available  wash hands before and after touching the baby routinely clean and disinfect surfaces they have touched."
"try and reduce long periods of time spent sitting, whether for work, studying, watching tv, reading, or using social media or playing games using screens. reduce sitting for long periods by taking short 3-5 minute breaks every 20-30 minutes.simply stand up and stretch or even better, take a walk around the house, up and down the stairs, or into the garden. by just moving around and stretching you can improve your health and wellbeing. for more ideas and illustrations of healthy stretchessee here.set up a regular routine to be active every day, by planning a physical activity or exercise break either by yourself, by joining an online class, or by setting up a time to be active online with your friends or colleagues. making a specifictime to be active helps ensure you get your daily physical activity. put the time in your diary, and it will help remind you. stick with it, as this will help you build a regular routine, and help you adjust to new ways of working, study and familylife under covid-19 restrictionsbe active with your family and friends, connecting with others can help you and your family in the home and elsewhere spend time together and be active. planning time to be active with your children withactive games at home, walks in the parks, or cycling can be a way the whole family can relax, be together and be active and healthy whilst at home. set yourself and your family be active goals, by choosing a specific type of activity, time of day and/or number of minutes you will do every day. get each family member to choose their own goal which sets a bit of a challenge but isrealistic with help from family or friends and motivation. record your progress on a weekly activity chart and, if you think it would help, reward yourself with something you value.http://www.euro.who.int/en/health-topics/health-emergencies/coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov-technical-guidance/stay-physically-active-during-self-quarantine/ recache fbclid iwar2rqyvybnmpdcmjbwqmoz0hzxzmit 9ykzxu6zhjgnywrtezwouqefu8v0more physical activity ideas to help you stay activefor infants under 1 year of agespend regular time doing floor-based play with your baby in a prone position   notummy time   and spread this throughout the day while baby is awake.for children under 5 years of ageactive play in and around the home - invent games which involve being active and can develop skills in throwing, catching, kicking, as well as developing posture and balance.active play and games where children get out of breath, such as running around, skipping and jumping.for children and adolescents aged 5-17 yearsactive games and active play with family.join in online active games or activity classes, also look for online physical education classes as well as exercise routines suitable for adolescents.set up playground games indoors such as jump rope and hop-scotch - make up new games and challenges that involve being active. learn a new skill - for example try an learn to juggle. encourage doing some muscle strength training activities such as lifting weights or use improvised weight such as bottles full of water or sand.for adults climb up the stairs as much as you can, think of it as an opportunity to be active. use household chores as a way to be more physical activity. join in an online exercise class or make up your own routine to music you enjoy that uses the major muscle groups and raises you heart rate. do some muscle strengthening activities such as lifting weights or improvise using full bottles of water or simply use your own body weight and do sets of press ups, sit ups and squats. make time for fun, such as dancing to music.where to get more help and informationfor more ideas use internet search platforms and check out social media for suggestions and access to free resources suitable for children of all ages and adults of all fitness and abilities."
i have two here to add to your list.   brookings insitute  http://www.brookings.edu/events/  st. louis fed economic lowdown  free   http://www.econlowdown.org/  there is also the national association of business economics  nabe  but to get access to their webinar resources you have to register on their site. i know this will not qualify as it is not free but they are a good source of up-to-date information. i felt that this would be a good share.   www.nabe.com    others that i just found: peterson institute for international economics  http://www.piie.com/events  national bureau of economic research  www.nber.org - click on videos   or   http://www.nber.org/video archives.html  organisation for economic co-operation and development  oecd   http://video.oecd.org/  world bank http://www.worldbank.org/en/about/archives/past-events 
"you could not rent first-run movies through amazon before covid-19 shut theaters.  amazon would rent movies that had already hit the rental market for between  2.99 and  5.99, depending on how recently the movie was in theaters. i just checked, amazon still charges  5.99 for parasite, the exact same amount i paid when i rented it through them 6 weeks ago.   with theaters closing, the big studios still wanted a way to show their movies, so they brought them to the rental market sooner and they are charging substantially more because the movie should still be in theaters and charged  19.99 to stay closer to movie ticket prices.  they may have some data that says something like 1.8 people on average watch a movie streamed through amazon, and that is why they charge more than the price of 1 ticket, but i do not know for sure.  "
"fever, dry cough and difficulty breathing are hallmarks of coronavirus.   symptoms may appear anywhere from 2 days to 2 weeks after exposure, the cdc says. but some people get no symptoms at all and can infect others without knowing it.  the illness varies in its severity, and many patients can recover at home in isolation."
"it is a complicated question, right  officials are telling us to stay indoors and away from others. at the same time, you need food or, as importantly, medicine. but what about the health of the delivery workers who come to your door  how do we keep each other safe  for  older americans  http://www.cdc.gov/aging/emergency/pdf/sip-pan-flu- injects.pdf  and those with health problems who are most at risk if they contract the coronavirus, having goods delivered makes sense. some companies,  like postmates  http://blog.postmates.com/introducing-non-contact- deliveries-ac2f23462909  and  instacart  http://www.businessinsider.com/coronavirus-instacart-delivers- groceries-without-human-contact-2020-3 , have begun offering non-contact or curbside deliveries.  european companies  http://techcrunch.com/2020/03/12/europes-deliveroo-and-glovo- switch-on-contactless-delivery-during-covid-19-pandemic/  are doing it, too. those services have a large network in place, though, which means their businesses are likely to thrive. smaller retailers will not as americans eschew restaurants, bars and specialty stores. that is why some restaurants are promoting delivery services as a way to stay in business, and why some cities that have ordered restaurants and bars to close have made exceptions for places providing delivery and takeout. but what about delivery workers  some groups, like gig workers rising, are demanding that employers like doordash and instacart do more to protect them on the job. recently, the group started  a petition  http://www.coworker.org/petitions/demand-gig-economy-companies- give-paid-sick-time-off-during-coronavirus  asking companies to provide paid time off to drivers who become sick during the coronavirus outbreak and cannot work. the bottom line is this: online deliveries are a boon for those who cannot leave their homes, as well as small restaurants who fear going out of business. but at the same time it comes with a risk to drivers and delivery workers who fear the loss of income if they get sick. at a minimum, everyone should generously tip their drivers for the service."
online applications for canadian visas start here.   due to the coronavirus canadian immigration is encouraging online applications. be aware that you might be required to provide fingerprints and a photo in person. 
"the danger posed to society from this disease does not come from the mortality rate, rather from the potential to make large fraction of the population ill. unlike the flu virus, this virus is a new virus to which we have no immunity.  about 10  of the infected people requires hospital treatment, which is a lot higher than in case of flu. the death rate of the order of 1  is achieved thanks to excellent hospital treatment. with a far larger fraction of the population infected with this virus compared to the flu and a far larger fraction of the infected people requiring hospital treatment compared to flu, the available hospital capacity to give everyone the treatment they need can be easily exhausted. the death rate due to the virus will then increase.  also, people who need treatment for other reasons can then also fail to get prompt medical attention. people suffering a heart attack who would have survived under normal circumstances thanks to getting prompt medical attention, may now end up dying too.  "
"2019-ncov was first cultured by a chinese group, as published here on january 24. china has not shared samples, but did share sequencing data in the linked paper and via gisaid. the australian group at the doherty institute has not published yet, but did put out a press release today  january 29 , and appears to be the first group outside of china to have cultured 2019-ncov.   viral isolation, and in particular, culture, is an important, and often difficult step in characterizing a novel virus. once characterized, viral culture serves as a gold standard for diagnosis. generally speaking, the ability to grow virus in cell culture allows for a broad range of pre-clinical studies that can lead to clinical advances including prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. consider how difficult it may be to study a pathogen if you are not able to manipulate it in a living culture. you can read about this in murray medical microbiology, ch 50. this article, which does not require a subscription, may also be of interest. the article describes a variety of historical and modern methods, but also includes some discussion about the use of viral culture. "
"there are two general categories of tests typically used for identifying viral infections: those based on viral genetic material and those based on host immune response.  the cdc page on mers-cov testing  also a coronavirus, just not the one that causes covid-19  is an informative resource to start with  bold added and reformatted by me :    molecular tests are used to diagnose active infection  presence of mers-cov  in people who are thought to be infected with mers-cov based on their clinical symptoms and having links to places where mers has been reported.    real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction  rrt-pcr  assays are molecular tests that can be used to detect viral rna in clinical samples.    serology testing is used to detect previous infection  antibodies to mers-cov  in people who may have been exposed to the virus. antibodies are proteins produced by the body is immune system to attack and kill viruses, bacteria, and other microbes during infection. the presence of antibodies to mers-cov indicates that a person had been previously infected with the virus and developed an immune response.   for some diseases, the primary type of test used is measuring immune reactivity  tuberculosis comes to mind.  however, tests currently being used for 2019-ncov are of the  molecular  type: rt-pcr assays detecting viral rna. viral rna is only present during an active infection. these tests can be used both when a patient is showing symptoms, to identify the infection, and also to retest later to show that the infection has been cleared. "
"clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces such as tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks. if surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection. to disinfect, most common epa-registered household disinfectants will work. see cdc is recommendations for household cleaning and disinfection."
"some cases of coronavirus do lead to pneumonia. but the pneumonia vaccine will not help.   vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and haemophilus influenza type b  hib  vaccine, only help protect people from these specific bacterial infections,  according to harvard medical school.   they do not protect against any coronavirus pneumonia.   the flu shot does not protect against coronavirus. but it does help protect against a massive, unnecessary burden on hospitals already overwhelmed with coronavirus.  the cdc estimates about 140,000 to 810,000 people are hospitalized with the flu every year in the us. and about half of americans do not get vaccinated - including most children who die from the flu."
"the virus is one of the few that can be transmitted from animals to humans. it is believed to have originated in bats, which perhaps infected live animals and seafood sold at a  wet market  in wuhan, a crowded, not so sanitary dense marketplace. bats are also hosts for ebola, hiv, and rabies.  the first person who contracted the virus on december 1, 2019, had no connection to the outdoor market, making it unclear how he contracted it in the first place.   others who shopped there came down with viral pneumonia from covid-19."
" if you show up unnecessarily, you are taking care away from people who really need it,   writes tara parker- pope  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/well/what-if-i-have- coronavirus.html , columnist for well, the times is consumer health section.  before going to the e.r., stop and ask yourself,  would i go to the e.r. for these symptoms  a cough or fever  under normal circumstances   in most cases, the answer is probably no.  instead, you should call ahead and ask a doctor or the emergency room for advice. they are likely to have the most up-to-date information for potential patients in your area, and they will tell you what to do next."
" corona  is latin for  crown.  it is used the names of many unrelated objects.  a  corona virus  has a layer of spiky proteins around its surface, so it looks like a crown under an electron microscope.  an electrical coronal discharge happens when the electric field near an object is high enough to ionize the air  it makes a spiky glow that looks kind of like a crown. the ionized air molecules can participate in chemical reactions that are not available to neutral air molecules, and that chemistry is a factor in the aging of high-voltage electrical systems.  in your abstract they write that most modeling of coronal discharges are of direct-current discharges, while they focus on alternating- current  ac  discharges. for an example of the difference between anode and cathode chemistry, see this post. "
" if all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.  the dataset you have is small, possibly underrepresented, and of unknown quality, since it is argued that many cases could have not been diagnosed. you observe an exponential growth, a common phenomena in many natural and artificial processes. the curve fits well, but i would bet that other similar curves would also fit well.  notice that the the antoine equation mentioned by you, is a very flexible one, since it can account for constant    alpha  , exponential   b/t l  , and linear   c log t l   growth curves. this makes it easy to fit to many datasets.  moreover, with this kind of data, it may be harder to model it at early stages. notice that you could fit a linear growth model to the earliest period. later, quadratic may fit just fine. later, exponential would fit better, where the exact rate may be hard to catch, since by definition  the more it grows, then the more it grows , and it may easy speed up quite rapidly. it may be easy to fit some curve to such data, but the best test of it, would be a test of time, i.e. validating it on future data.  "
"people living with hiv with advanced disease, those with low cd4 and high viral load and those who are not taking antiretroviral treatment have an increased risk of infections and related complications in general. it is unknown if the immunosuppression of hiv will put a person at greater risk for covid-19, thus, until more is known, additional precautions for all people with advanced hiv or poorly controlled hiv, should be employed 1 , 2 .at present there is no evidence that the risk of infection or complications of covid-19 is different among people living with hiv who are clinically and immunologically stable on antiretroviral treatment when compared with the general population. some people living with hiv may have known risk factors for covid-19 complications, such as diabetes, hypertension and other noncommunicable diseases and as such may have increased risk of covid-19 unrelated to hiv. we know that during the sars and mers outbreaks there were only a few case reports of mild disease among people living with hiv. to date, there is a case report of a person living with hiv who had covid-19 and recovered 3  and a small study on risk factors and antiretrovirals used among people living with hiv with covid-19 from china. this study reported similar rates of covid-19 disease as compared to the entire population and increased risk with older age, but not with low cd4, high viral load level or antiretroviral regimen 4 . current clinical data suggest the main mortality risk factors are linked to older age and other comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and hypertension. some very healthy people have also developed severe disease from the coronavirus infection 5 . plhiv are advised to take the same precautions as the general population 6 , 7 : wash hands oftencough etiquette physical distancingseek medical care if symptomaticself-isolation if in contact with someone with covid-19 and other actions per the government response people living with hiv who are taking antiretroviral drugs should ensure that they have at least 30 days and up to 6-month supply of medicines and ensure that their vaccinations are up to date  influenza and pneumococcal vaccines . adequate supplies of medicines to treat co-infections and comorbidities and addiction should also be ensured."
"so, you are at home, like millions of other americans. there are some simple practices there that you can follow to help reduce the risk of being exposed to or spreading the virus. always remember the basics, like washing your hands frequently  and reminding members of your household to do so  and having two weeks worth of meals and any other essentials. but do not forget about cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched surfaces daily  that includes the interior of your vehicle, like the steering wheel. and when doing laundry, use the warmest appropriate setting and dry items fully."
"the first case of coronavirus was detected in the chinese city of wuhan on december 12, 2019.  the virus is first thought to have originated from the city is huanan seafood wholesale market."
"an antiviral drug must be able to target the specific part of a virus is life cycle that is necessary for it to reproduce, according to harvard medical school.   in addition, an antiviral drug must be able to kill a virus without killing the human cell it occupies. and viruses are highly adaptive. "
"r is a reference to r0, otherwise known as the basic reproductive rate, and means the number of new cases from a single patient infection. r0 has to be above 1 for a disease to persist. it is a classic equation which account for the probability of transmission against immunity. the y-axis is the number of infecteds, very poorly presented.  the idea is that r0 will be lower if there is containment  less people to infect because you can not move around , but will last longer, possibly because the number of naive patients  not encountered the virus  will be larger over a longer period of time.   that particular graph appears to be saying that everyone at risk of infection will get infected with or without control measures  the surface area under the graphs is approximately the same   and the only thing that will halt the virus is acquired immunity. if this is mainstream economic thinking then i beg to differ, albeit i note the source is cdc  again see note  .   for example, all other respiratory viral infections are seasonal. if covid-19 is seasonal containment is the right choice, because the window of transmission is limited.   , given this is of cdc origin i think either its a mistake, or at the very least was taken out of context, because the idea is that overall there is a lower number of people infected as a result of  social distancing  and that does not appear to be what the two curves show. "
"  does this include layovers    yes, if you are an alien that does not fullfill one of the conditions of section 2 and were physically present within the schengen area during the 14-day period preceding their entry, when the plane departed after 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020    as a us citizen, what will be the impact of my layover    since a us-citizen is not a alien, the proclamation does not apply. entry conditions for us-citizens are not meationed in the proclamation.       section 1. suspension and limitation on entry. the entry into the united states, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of all aliens who were physically present within the schengen area during the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the united states is hereby suspended and limited subject to section 2 of this proclamation.  ...     answer containling compleate list contained in section 2      sec. 5. effective date. this proclamation is effective at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020. this proclamation does not apply to persons aboard a flight scheduled to arrive in the united states that departed prior to 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on march 13, 2020.     04:59 central european time, saturday, march 14, 2020     sources:   proclamation -- suspension of entry as immigrants and nonimmigrants of certain additional persons who pose a risk of transmitting 2019 novel coronavirus   the white house    answer containling compleate list contained in section 2    "
"france is health minister set off a wave of confusion when he warned that the use of ibuprofen could become an  aggravating factor  for infection in covid-19 cases  however, the world health organization says there are no reports to support this claim.  in an official response, the who said it is not recommending against the use of the common painkiller.   we are also consulting with physicians treating covid-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative effects of ibuprofen, beyond the usual known side-effects that limit its use in certain populations,  the who said in an update on march 18.  bogoch agreed with the who, saying there is still not enough data on the subject.   the short answer is we are not entirely sure if this is going to do anything or not. it is unlikely to have any effect whatsoever,  he told ctv is your morning on march 19.  for individuals who suspect they may have covid-19 and are suffering from a low-grade fever or another type of pain, bogoch said they can take ibuprofen or other over-the-counter medications, such as acetaminophen."
they are if they have a social security number. a republican aide to the senate finance committee noted in a call with reporters wednesday that green card holders qualify for work-eligible social security numbers.
"yes, but it depends on what kind of test you do.  if you do an antibody test, in theory it could show that you had the virus and then recovered,  hotez said.    to do an antibody test, you would need to have blood drawn. but coronavirus tests in the u.s. are not being done this way."
"it is unlikely that you would be able to have firm evidence of a sudden drop in price so rapidly. reason for that is that the real estate market is a bit peculiar: transactions take time to put together and it can take a long time for prices to adjust. the real estate market is not nearly as liquid as the stock market, international commodity markets or flower auctions.  when there is a real estate crash, it is common for the number of transactions to drop while buyers and sellers figure out the new price. sellers, especially individuals who have a lot invested in their house, a  possibly underwater  mortgage to pay back, etc. are not ready to lower their asking price at once. some might prefer to sell their house for the same price several years later rather than selling it at its real price right now. buyers who are concerned about paying too much  like yourself  wait for the price to feel more reasonable relative to everything else. those who need to sell a house before buying another one might also be stuck. and nobody knows exactly where the market might clear in between.  but, right now, you would not expect many real estate transactions to be happening in europe. real estate agencies are forced to close in several countries, it is not possible to visit houses, etc. so it is difficult to have any idea of what the current prices are, whether the drop in the number of transactions reflects a drop in the underlying market or is just a side-effect of the current measures to fight the pandemic, or how fast everything is going to go back to normal. "
"there are some theories that the covid-19 outbreak started in hospitals  vox, march 13, 2020 :    another theory is that intense spread of the virus in the hospital  system, before doctors realized there was a problem, may have  amplified the outbreak. some 10 percent of medical workers in lombardy  have been infected, according to a march 3 washington post report, and  health workers account for 5 percent of those infected in the country.   in hospitals, in general, there are more older people.  there were also several cases of quick spread of infection in nursing homes.  hospitals and nursing homes are environments where people live close together, so this is why infection can spread quickly among older people.  younger people get infected in schools, when they travel to areas with lot of infected people and when they engage in contact sports, for example.  one of the reasons for a lot of cases in italy is that they did not act quickly when the inefction started. "
only wear a mask if you are ill with covid-19 symptoms  especially coughing  or looking after someone who may have covid-19. disposable face mask can only be used once. if you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask.
"a summary on how to delay and weake the curve from stanford researcher michael lin, phd-md:   "
"i agree with many of the other answers here but think the statement is even worse than they make it out to be.   the statement is an explicit version of an implicit claim in many shoddy analyses of small datasets. these hint that because they have found a significant result in a small sample, their claimed result must be real and important because it is  harder  to find a significant effect in a small sample. this belief is simply wrong, because random error in small samples means that any result is less trustworthy, whether the effect size is large or small. large and significant effects are therefore more likely to be of the incorrect magnitude and more importantly, they can be in the wrong direction. andrew gelman refers to these usefully as notype s  errors  estimates whose sign is wrong  as opposed to notype m  errors  estimates whose magnitude is wrong . combine this with the file-drawer effect  small, non-significant results go unpublished, while large, significant ones are published  and you are most of the way to the replication crisis and a lot of wasted time, effort and money.   thanks to  adrian below for digging up a figure from gelman that illustrates this point well:     this may seem to be an extreme example but the point is entirely relevant to the argument made by raoult.  "
"yes.  the world health organization defines a pandemic as  the worldwide spread of a new disease,  and on march 11, the who is director general announced that covid-19 met those criteria.  dr. tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, the who is director general, stressed that the designation does not mean that citizens should stop trying to contain the virus.   find, isolate, test and treat every case, and trace every contact,  he said.  ready your hospitals. protect and train your health care workers.   for the united states, community transmission in several cities and a growing number of cases that are not able to be traced to travel or contact with individuals diagnosed with covid-19 makes it probable that there will be extensive spread here.   a lot of us have been sitting back and watching this from a distant place,  schaffner noted, adding that the game has changed in recent days. he cautioned against  running around like a chicken with its head cut off,  and recommended thinking ahead. a large increase in cases in your community could mean school closures or other changes to your routine.   be prudent and be prepared to participate as much as you can in social distancing when that becomes the order of the day,  he said. if health authorities advise against mass gatherings, for example, do not make a fuss.   it should not panic you,  schaffner said.  but it should get your attention. "
"short answer: although there are some reports on this, it is pretty unlikely. it is more likely that patients where released too early from hospital, developed further symptoms later on and got worse, was re-hospitalized, tested again for sars-cov2, which was positive and counted as re-infected.   another possibility is that a false negative test happened, when people got re-tested later the test was positive again and the patient was counted as re-infected. given the rising number of cases worldwide this should become evident pretty soon, if this is a real problem and not an artefact. for the moment, i do not think there is enough evidence for the re-infection of the same patient in such a short time period. if this holds, future will tell.  long answer: there is now an experimental paper, which infected rhesus macaques with sars-cov2, tested if the infection was similar to humans happening in the upper airways  which it was , and re-infected the animals after 28 days with a really high dose of virus  which is much higher than what comes around in our environment , with none of the macaques getting re-infected or showing pathological signs of the infection. see reference 1 for details. this article has its limitations with small sample size and the general questions if the chosen animal model is really comparable with human.   additionally it looks very much like that patients who are recovering do not shed infectious virus anymore. the pcr test however does not discriminate between infectious virus and plain virus rna, so it is most like much longer positive than people are infectious. they also show the rapid appearance of specific antibodies, which would at least temporarily protect against a re-infection. see reference 2 for a nice summary and reference 3 for the original article.  references   reinfection could notoccur in sars-cov-2 infected rhesus macaques people ished  high levels of coronavirus, study finds, but most are likely not infectious after recovery begins clinical presentation and virological assessment of hospitalized cases of coronavirus disease 2019 in a travel-associated transmission cluster  "
"sars-cov-2 is believed to have spilled over into humans from a rhinopholus  horseshoe bat  reservoir. during flight, bats  body temperature is maintained at levels associated with fever in other mammals. rhinolophus bats are reported to reach skin temperatures of 41 c during flight.  from this review which describes why bats might be special sources for zoonotic viruses  so, this virus is likely adapted to survive higher temperatures than a human host. "
"yes you can.  according to government advice for people with animals, if you have a dog that needs walking, you should count this as the one form of exercise you take every day.  it is important that you should remain 2m away from anyone outside your household while walking your dog.  there is no guidance from the government on whether your dog should be on a lead, but some parks, including the royal parks, insist on this as a rule, to help ensure people maintain social distance.  as well as your daily exercise, you may also leave the house to care for a vulnerable person, and this care may involve walking their dog.  when you do this, you should always remember to wash your hands before and after handling the dog, and remain 2m away from the owner."
"while there is no single trick that works for everyone, one thing you can  try now to improve your sleep  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/style/self- care/sleep-tips-benefits-coronavirus.html  is setting up a consistent schedule. that means sticking to a regular bedtime and wake time. try to go 90 minutes without any screen time before bed -- that means no emails, social media or watching t.v. you can also take baby steps, beginning with 15 minutes, then working your way up. working out, whether that means taking a socially distant walk or doing an at- home routine, can also help tire you out and dispel extra nervous energy. taking a warm shower or bath 90 minutes before lights out may also help prime you for a better night is sleep. be sure to nix the coffee, alcohol and any eating before bed -- these things do not promote quality rest. finally,  manage your anxiety  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/style/self-care/sleep-tips- benefits-coronavirus.html  through meditation, deep breathing techniques and, in some cases, medication. if your anxiety is debilitating, seek out a mental health professional or other clinical mental health services."
"while some western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of covid-19, there is no evidence that current medicine can prevent or cure the disease. who does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for covid-19. however, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both western and traditional medicines. who will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings are available."
"the world health organisation  who  advises that the most common symptoms are fever, tiredness, and a dry cough. the who says about 80 per cent of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment. growing evidence suggests that loss of smell and taste are also symptoms of having the coronavirus. more..."
"please refer to cdc is requirements for bringing a dog to the united states. the current requirements for rabies vaccination apply to dogs imported from china, a high-risk country for rabies."
"no. while shortness of breath is among the most common symptoms of the virus,according to the cdc, that diagnosis does not necessarily involve holding alarge breath for 10 seconds. medically known as dyspnea, shortness of breathis often described as  an intense tightening in the chest, air hunger,difficulty breathing, breathlessness or a feeling of suffocation,  accordingto the mayo clinic.if you think you may be sick, call your doctor and  follow cdcguidance  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.html ."
"most edible plants need a lot of sun, so you might struggle to get any sort of a crop. best thing is to regard it as a fun experiment, rather than a way to feed the family. if possible, when it gets warmer    , stand the plants outside on an external window ledge for extra light. do not let the compost dry out. as with growing any fruit or veg,  1  only grow things you like, and  2  grow for taste. you could try herbs  basil, parsley, etc , cress, leaf salad. not sure if new potatoes would work, but worth a try if you have the room. personally, if i was going to try one thing on my windowsill it would be  gardener is delight  tomatoes. they are small and exceedingly tasty. i grew them for years down my allotment until i was beaten by tomato blight.   http://www.bbc.co.uk/gardening/digin/your space/windowsill.shtml "
"if you are interested in the biological or health effects of various chemicals, try to look up the safety data sheet, or  sds  or  msds , for that chemical compound.  going to your favorite search engine and plugging in your chemical of interest to the search term  sds  or  msds  will almost always get you to some kind of answer -- either what you are looking for has a safety data sheet or it does not   in the case of 70  isopropyl alcohol, there are sdss/msdss out there that will tell you what potential health effects are. here is one example for 70  isopropyl alcohol:    potential health effects    eye: produces irritation, characterized by a burning sensation, redness, tearing, inflammation, and possible corneal injury. may cause transient corneal injury. in the eyes of a rabbit, 0.1 ml of 70  isopropyl alcohol caused conjunctivitis, iritis, and corneal opacity.    skin: may cause irritation with pain and stinging, especially if the skin is abraded. isopropanol has a low potential to cause allergic skin reactions  however, rare cases of allergic contact dermatitis have been reported. may be absorbed through intact skin. dermal absorption has been considered toxicologically insignificant. the cases of deep coma associated with skin contact are thought to be a consequence of gross isopropanol vapor inhalation in rooms with inadequate ventilation, rather than being attributable to percutaneous absorption of isopropanol per se.    ingestion: causes gastrointestinal irritation with nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. may cause kidney damage. may cause central nervous system depression, characterized by excitement, followed by headache, dizziness, drowsiness, and nausea. advanced stages may cause collapse, unconsciousness, coma and possible death due to respiratory failure. aspiration of material into the lungs may cause chemical pneumonitis, which may be fatal. the probable oral lethal dose in humans is 240 ml  2696 mg/kg , but ingestion of only 20 ml  224 mg/kg  has caused poisoning.    inhalation: inhalation of high concentrations may cause central nervous system effects characterized by nausea, headache, dizziness, unconsciousness and coma. may cause narcotic effects in high concentration. causes upper respiratory tract irritation. inhalation of vapors may cause drowsiness and dizziness.    chronic: prolonged or repeated skin contact may cause defatting and dermatitis.   safety data sheets sound terrible  but in reality, people use rubbing alcohol with common sense, without putting into their eyes, without drinking it, etc.   mainly the point of this answer is to help you find the answer for yourself, if you want to find out about this or other chemicals you might be worried about. "
"this was the most commonly asked question. the cares act not only provides relief for small business owners through loans but also allows the self-employed, independent contractors and part-time workers to collect unemployment benefits. that initially seemed like double dipping to me. but as a colleague in the twitterverse pointed out, it could make sense if your unemployment is covering personal expenses while your eidl and/or ppp is covering other operating expenses. for example, if you are a restaurant owner, you have to pay for a mortgage, paid leave and supply chain disruptions, while we all wait out stay-at-home orders. but you also have to buy groceries and pay your home utility bills. if you can only get a loan to cover business expenses, you may still need unemployment benefits to pay your personal expenses. keep in mind, the details for unemployment benefits -- eligibility rules, benefit amounts, length of payments, etc. -- vary from state to state. in illinois, for instance, to maintain your eligibility for unemployment, you must be able to work, you have to be available to accept a job and you have to be looking for work. if the additional loan funds allow you to keep running your business, it may be hard to demonstrate that you are out of work. i have already heard from a few self-employed people who have applied for unemployment--and had widely varying results. most likely the rules will become clearer in time, as the states decide what will and will not be allowed."
"this may not strike most as a bioinformatics, but getting the key clinical outcome is essential in understanding the molecular basis of pathogenicity.  i think the mortality rate is over-reported. this is not to say the situation of 2019-ncov is not serious - it is very serious.  the two essential factors missing in your equation for 2019-ncov are:   age. mortality is likely skewed towards the old and very young seroprevalence. to identify the number of asymptomatic patients.   old people have a weakened immune system  e.g. reduced t-cell response . the very young have an underdeveloped immune system. the problem is hospital cases are skewed towards those with severe infection, which is likely the old and very young. in 2019-ncov the first infecteds were middle aged men, but likely to be restricted to those exposed to the  wuhan meat market .  problem  asymptomatic  spreaders  are known in influenza and are suspected in 2019-ncov. asymptomatics will inflate the mortality rate  because we are not detecting them .  solution s    one solution is to conduct seroprevalence surveys. serological surveys screening for antibodies  igg  against 2019-ncov will identify asymptomatic patients, using the first formula you stated. however, would you seriously go around the general population in a 2019-ncov epidemic taking blood samples  errhhh no. the bio-statistics approach is to use a catalytic model and critical to this is the age of the patient. catalytic models are a priori models that incorporates the age-prevelance profile of infection. by introducing the incidence and age of hospitalisation of e.g. the old and the young, the rest of the distribution, i.e. asymptomatics can be calculated by regression. this estimates the total population of infecteds and again you use equation 1 to calculate the mortality rate recorded by the hospital. mathematical models based on transmission dynamics. the problem here is the rate of transmission is unknown.   i would assume the hospital is the place virus-induced mortality is reasonably accurate.  the second formula you described works very well for ebolavirus, no-one has ever heard of asymptomatic ebolavirus. it would also work well for another betacoronavirus middle eastern respiratory syndrome. the key problem with 2019-ncov is we do not know the number of asymptomatic patients or patients with such mild infections they never report illness.   summary in summary, i think the mortality is being over-reported if it is based on your equation 2. equation 1, however, will also over-report the mortality rate. "
"it probably can -- but you should not be overly worried. here is why. so far, there are not scientific findings on how long the virus can live on fabric. but fabrics are generally porous -- as is cardboard, which has been tested. and a recent study did find that the virus can live on cardboard for up to 24 hours.  the thing that you have to consider, though, is that those tests are done in ideal testing circumstances,  says rachel graham, a virologist at the university of north carolina.  that is like in some kind of hermetically sealed box where there is no fluctuation in humidity, there is no wind, there is nothing that can contribute toward desiccating the virus. and so desiccation -- or drying out the virus -- would actually reduce the amount of time it is actually viable on any kind of surface.  plus, porousness is a good thing when it comes to avoiding viral transmission. a surface that is permeable, like a fabric, tends to trap viruses more easily than hard surfaces.  it is less at risk of transmitting because the virus gets kind of stuck to the  porous  surface, and so it can not be easily transferred back off of it,  graham says.  porous surfaces also suck the fluid out of it. the viral membrane is a lipid membrane, and so if that becomes dried out, it is basically done, infectivity-wise.  if you are concerned that clothing or other fabric items might have picked up the virus, throw the clothing in the washer and dryer. for most situations, says graham, your detergent will do its job and get rid of any infective particles -- or at least sanitize them to the point where they are not a risk to you. if you are taking care of someone who is ill or immunocompromised or if you are working in a health care setting, you may want to take additional precautions. the centers for disease control and prevention has recommendations for households with suspected or confirmed cases of the coronavirus, which include wearing gloves when handling dirty laundry from an ill person and using the warmest appropriate water setting when washing clothes or linens to disinfect them. i like to use wipes to disinfect surfaces in my home -- especially surfaces that are frequently touched. but how much surface area can one wipe be used on before it loses its ability to kill the coronavirus  the first step is to check the label on the wipes you are using. for instance, the label on a container of clorox wipes instructs:  use enough wipes for treated surface to remain visibly wet for 4 minutes. to kill viruses, let stand 15 seconds.  that time and that visible wetness are important, says erica hartmann, an expert in environmental microbiology at northwestern university is mccormick school of engineering. regardless of the particular ingredients in the wipes you are using,  they are all chemicals that have to react,  she says.  and those chemical reactions are not instantaneous -- they take a certain amount of time. so what you are doing when you are keeping the surface wet is you are basically allowing time, allowing the chemical reactions to take place.  so if that clorox wipe is not making the surface visibly wet for 4 minutes, you are trying to cover too much ground with one wipe. there is no exact figure for how much surface area a wipe can handle. but a 2018 study found that one wipe is generally more effective over 1 to 2 square feet than 8 square feet. and you do not need a premade wipe to clean surfaces: you can also use a liquid product on a cloth or paper towel. the centers for disease control and prevention advises using products that contain bleach  sodium hypochlorite  or alcohol  at least 70   and following the manufacturer is directions. you can make your own cleaning solution by mixing 4 teaspoons of bleach per quart of water, according to the cdc. the u.s. environmental protection agency has posted a list of approved products to disinfect against the coronavirus. strangers keep petting my dog when we go for a walk. could my dog transmit the virus on its fur  saskia popescu, an infection prevention epidemiologist at the health care system honorhealth, says she is not especially concerned about dog fur transmitting the virus.  i think that i would probably be more worried if somebody was coughing all over the place and went to touch my dog is harness or something -- something inanimate,  she says.  i would put it in the lower-risk category.  that is because like fabric, fur is a porous surface -- so it is not easy for a person to pick up bits of virus from it.  the chances of you getting it from fur and hair is going to be less than getting it from a solid surface,  says graham, the virologist. still, she said, she would err on the side of caution and ask people not to pet your dog right now. graham says one way to make sure your dog does not get touched by overenthusiastic petters is to avoid letting your dog off leash in a place where it may encounter other people. rather than going to a dog park, she says,  it might be a better idea to take your dog out in the yard or somewhere you know that there is not going to be a lot of people.  and despite the occasional media report of a dog diagnosed with covid-19, there is no evidence that pets can contract or spread covid-19. the cdc says it has not received any reports of pets or animals becoming sick with the disease. the american veterinary medical association concurs:  infectious disease experts and multiple international and domestic human and animal health organizations agree there is no evidence at this point to indicate that pets become ill with covid-19 or that they spread it to other animals, including people.  one note: if you are already sick with covid-19, the association recommends limiting contact with animals  out of an abundance of caution  until more is known about the virus. if you are not sick with the coronavirus, the group says you can interact with your pet as you normally would -- while practicing good hygiene, including washing your hands before and after interacting with your pet."
"it could be a good idea, but lenders are overwhelmed right now, so expect the process of shopping and closing to take time. when mortgage rates fall to record lows, as we have seen in recent weeks, refinancing can be a good way to save some extra cash or  to shorten your loan term  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/business/mortgage-refinance- delays.html  and pay it off faster. if you shorten your loan term to 15 years from 30 years, your monthly payments are likely to rise, but you will have more flexibility in your budget sooner than you would have had."
"as with seasonal flu, people at highest risk for severe disease and death include people over the age of 60 and those with underlying conditions, according to the world health organization.     starting at age 60, there is an increasing risk of disease and the risk increases with age. the highest risk of serious illness and death is in people older than 80 years,  nancy messonnier, director of the cdc is national center for immunization and respiratory diseases, told reporters in a recent telebriefing.    the cdc recommends that people over 60 stock up on supplies, keep away from others who are sick, limit close contact, wash hands often, avoid crowds as much as possible, avoid cruises and do not fly on planes unless absolutely necessary."
"not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care.  possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. who is coordinating efforts to develop vaccines and medicines to prevent and treat covid-19.  the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing."
" data to date suggest that 80  of infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15  are severe infection, requiring oxygen and 5  are critical infections, requiring ventilation.     http://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200306-sitrep-46-covid-19.pdf sfvrsn 96b04adf 2 "
"tests are limited and most state and local health authorities will tell you not to get tested, even if you have symptoms, unless:  you have symptoms and were recently in contact with someone who tested positive for coronavirus. you have symptoms and need to be hospitalized. cotton swabs and tests are in short supply, so if you do not fall into the above two categories, chances are your doctor will not order a test.   still, if you have symptoms, call your medical doctor to be advised on how to proceed. you most likely will be directed to self-quarantine for 14 days.  for all of us, stay safe, stay home, keep your distance, wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, and cover your coughs and sneezes."
"you are correct, that it is the passenger is responsibility to check that they have all the rights to enter the countries for every layover. in particular, if you are not allowed to board, then turkish airlines will not be required to give any compensation.  the good news is, that the travel advisory does not prohibit people from transiting through turkey. in fact, since practically all europe -- us flights are cancelled due to the travel bans of both countries, this is the currently the cheapest way for me to transit between the two, given that i have the right to enter both. get on a turkish airlines flight from europe to istanbul, and from there a turkish airlines flight from istanbul to the us. since turkey is not on the travel ban of either country, the flights continue as planned. also, since i am not  entering  turkey but merely transiting through it, this is also allowed by turkey.  p.s., i am aware that this particular flight had been cancelled  the above is general advice for others in the same situation. "
"yes, it is possible to have no symptoms and be infected, various sources, e. g. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32179137.  as for testing after  clearing the infection , this would be what a serological scarring test would look for, e. g.:    http://www.statnews.com/2020/03/27/serological-tests-reveal-immune-coronavirus/ http://www.contagionlive.com/news/florian-krammer-phd-discusses-new-coronavirus-serological-assay.  "
"timatic, the database which airlines use to verify passenger travel documents, states:      passengers who have been in the hubei province  china  people is rep.  in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter  korea  rep. .     the end of december was more than 14 days ago, so you should be fine. "
"the long and short of it is that the novel coronavirus can be experimentally aerosolized where it can persist in the air for several hours but a number of studies have failed to detect virus in samples taken from the air of the rooms of patients with active disease. but virus has been detected in aerosols near bathrooms surfaces indicates that it is spread over a long distance with mechanical assistance  flushing  . sars was also spread by one patient with diarhoea with malfunctioning sewer systems aerolized the virus across multiple floors of a building.    both the covid-19 and the sars viruses had an aerosol half-life of 2.7 hours, meaning half the particles drop out of the air after that amount of time, and half of what remains drop out after another 2.7 hours. after a day, roughly nine half-lives, 0.002  0.2 of 1   of the original particles remain. as a result, the scientists said,  aerosol ... transmission of  the new coronavirus  is plausible, as the virus can remain viable in aerosols for multiple hours.    the usual spread may be via contaminated surfaces  probably on the cruise ships  and respiratory transmission less so since the rate of symptomatic infection among a patient is household members was 10.5   since you are outside based on the above, the viral load would be miniscule.  http://www.statnews.com/2020/03/16/coronavirus-can-become-aerosol-doesnt-mean-doomed/  http://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.09.20033217v2.full.pdf  not peer reviewed yet   "
"  currently there is no evidence to suggest contact lens wearers are more at risk for acquiring covid-19 than eyeglass wearers. contact lens wearers should continue to practice safe contact lens wear and care hygiene habits to help prevent against transmission of any contact lens-related infections, such as always washing hands with soap and water before handling lenses. people who are healthy can continue to wear and care for their contact lenses as prescribed by their eye care professional.  find more information about how coronavirus spreads and how to protect yourself. visit cdc is contact lens website for more information on healthy contact lens wear and care."
"there is a lot of spin going on in all camps, including the sanders camp. this is par for the course in a political election year.  the article you cited is guilty of the same criticisms it makes of other articles. it fails to provide any concise information about how many voters in the 18-29 age range in 2020 turned out compared to 2016.  in fairness, this is partly because election officials do not track voters by age when they vote. so the only way to know anything about this kind of metric is to look at the same exit polls the article rejects as inaccurate.  the sanders campaign, like other campaigns, do their own polling and sampling. so they have pretty much the best idea of anyone as to how well they have really done. so listen to what bernie himself said:   have we been as successful as i would hope in bringing in young people in  and the answer is  no ,  he told reporters at a press briefing on wednesday.   we are making some progress but historically everybody knows that young people do not vote in the kind of numbers that older people vote,  sanders went on.  i think that will change in the general election. but to be honest with you, we have not done as well in bringing young people into the process. it is not easy.   source: http://www.businessinsider.com/bernie-sanders-admits-hes-not-inspiring-enough-young-voters-2020-3  however, that is not the only thing we can infer from available data. if you put together a spreadsheet state-by-state to tally vote totals compared to votes received by sanders, you will see a strong pattern. the data shows that sanders  overall vote count is running 20-30  lower than in 2016 in most states that have voted so far, despite the fact that across-the-board vote count is running 10-30  higher than in 2016. sanders defenders argue that this is because the field was so much bigger and stronger than in 2016, but i see this as a throwaway argument. if sanders was really a strong vote-getter, he would not be bleeding support compared to 2016 because the ones who voted for him then already knew him, whereas his opponents this year were mostly newcomers to the primaries. he already had name recognition that the others did not have among democratic voters.  so what does this broader insight tell us  well, all of the polls we have seen say that sanders  support levels are strongest among the 18-29 age range. so if he is hemorrhaging that much voter support in the overall numbers, it either means that the number of voters in the 18-29 range matched 2016 while the rest of his supporters disappeared almost completely into the woodwork, or  much more likely  his support among 18-29 year olds sagged compared to four years ago along with the other age groups.  given sanders  remarks business insider quoted, i would go with the latter likelihood. "
"this answer currently lists nationwide entry restrictions imposed by the united states federal  national  government. a majority of states as well as counties, municipalities, towns, and cities have imposed entry bans or automatic quarantine-upon-entry orders as well as stay-at-home orders that may prevent your intended travel. this answer cannot index all of these orders, which have slight differences, technicalities, and effective dates that must be consulted to determine if your planned travel activity is allowed under state and local law. nbc news provides a basic overview as of april 5, 2020. additionally, travelers should be aware that their home countries consulates in the us may not be operating normally.  under the new rules, all flights carrying at least one non-crew passenger that has been physically present anywhere in mainland china, iran, the schengen area, or the common travel area  uk/ireland  within the past 14 days must land at one of the following airports:   jfk - new york, ny ord - chicago, il sfo - san francisco, ca sea - seattle/tacoma, wa hnl - honolulu, hi lax - los angeles, ca atl - atlanta, ga iad - washington, dc   the following airports were added february 3, 2020:   ewr - newark, nj dfw - dallas/fort worth, tx dtw - detroit, mi   the following airports were added march 14, 2020:   bos - boston, ma mia - miami, fl   additionally, such individuals cannot travel to the us at all unless they meet one of these exceptions:   us citizens and nationals lawful permanent residents  green card holders  spouses of citizens or lprs parents of unmarried citizens/lprs under 21 siblings of citizens/lprs, both unmarried and under 21 children, foster children, and adoptees of citizens/lprs air and sea crew members diplomats and foreign officials those granted exceptions by high-level officials   upon arrival, such excepted passengers will be subject to public health screenings by us public health service personnel. at a press briefing on jan. 31, 2020  transcript , health and human services secretary alex azar announced that individuals who have been to hubei province in the 14 days preceding entry will be sent to a 14-day quarantine, and individuals who have been to other parts of mainland china in the 14 days preceding entry will self-monitor for symptoms for 14 days at home. this is the first major federal quarantine action since the 1960s.  this action does not affect aliens  immigrants or nonimmigrants  already in the us. it does not cancel or revoke valid visas, though it temporarily prevents their use and may prevent the issuance of new visas in some cases.  additionally, entering the us through land borders from canada or mexico is limited to  essential travel :   us citizens and permanent residents returning to the us travel for medical purposes travel to attend educational institutions travel to work in the us travel for emergency response and public health purposes lawful cross-border trade official government or diplomatic travel us armed forces and their family returning to the us military-related travel   questions and answers  does this include only mainland china, or other territories as well  the 14-day rule does not apply the special administrative regions of hong kong and macau. it does apply to the disputed province of tibet. it does not apply to taiwan, the republic of china, which is claimed by the people is republic of china but is not functionally a part of that country.  does this include british territories as well  the proclamation covering the uk excludes  overseas territories outside of europe . this seems to mean that gibraltar and the crown dependencies are included, but other british territories are excluded.  do the us-canada and us-mexico border restrictions apply to air travel  not at this time.  when do these restrictions take effect    for china: february 2, 2020 at 5:00pm est for iran: march 2, 2020 at 5:00pm est for the schengen area: march 13, 2020 at 11:59pm edt. for the common travel area: march 16, 2020 at 11:59pm edt. land border restrictions: march 20, 2020 at 11:59pm edt.   where are these regulations found  the department of homeland security has a page on air travel restrictions, a fact sheet, and a list of news and updates. the cdc has a page on procedures for travelers from the affected countries.  the recent extension of restrictions to the common travel area, consisting of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and the republic of ireland, was announced by us vice president pence at a press conference saturday the 14th. official regulations have yet to be promulgated.  regulations on flights arriving in the us needing to be redirected to certain airports, published in the federal register:   for china: this document, with additional airports provided in this document for iran: this document for the schengen area: this document with additional airports for the uk and ireland: this document   the presidential proclamations banning entry of certain sub-classes of these individuals:   for china: here for iran: here for the schengen area: here for the uk and ireland: here   dhs has announcements for the us-canada and us-mexico land border restrictions, and the rules can be found in the federal register:   for us-canada land border: this document for us-mexico land border: this document   how long will these restrictions last  the restrictions will remain in effect until further notice from the government. with respect to the entry ban specifically, the secretary of health and human services is to advise the president at least every 15 days whether or not the ban should be changed or cancelled. the land border restrictions last until april 20, 11:59pm edt.  who made this decision, why, and what is there authority to do so  the secretary of homeland security made the decision to impose new travel restrictions. the secretary has the legal authority to designate the places at which flights inbound to the us may land for inspection. the secretary decided that this measure was necessary to prevent serious harm to the national security.  the president has the authority to suspend the entry of aliens into the us as needed for national security. president trump found that the federal government is incapable of monitoring all of the 14,000 daily travels between china and the us. therefore, this rule is needed to protect the public health and safety of america.  the cdc has authority to enact quarantines under the public health service act.  what if i do not comply with these rules  if you lie to officials about your presence in china to avoid the regulations, you could face serious immigration consequences including expedited removal from the country and a permanent inadmissibility in the future. if you attempt to escape quarantine, the government may use lawful force to prevent you from doing so. "
"the world health organisation is initial advice was that only people showing symptoms of infection or those caring for someone that has covid-19 need to wear a face mask. however, it has now updated its position to say it supports government initiatives that require or encourage the public wearing of masks. it has emphasised that surgical masks should be preserved for medical professionals. more..."
"there is little data so far on cloth or homemade masks in general -- let alone data that dictates how many pleats to put on your home-sewn version. griffin says the best material to use is a tight-weave cotton.  do not use a synthetic or a polyester because they have looked at the virus is ability to survive on surfaces, and spandex is the worst,  he says. johns hopkins medicine has one design you might try. kaiser permanente has another design, as well as a video showing how to make a mask using a sewing machine. both recommend 100  woven cotton fabric. kaiser recommends washing and drying the fabric two or three times before cutting it, so it does not shrink later. you can make a mask out of a t-shirt, no sewing machine required. you could also try making one out of  unused  shop towels. but no matter what you make it out of, try to make it fit closely to your face and do not touch the front of it once you have started wearing it."
"article links to this publication which has all the information needed: http://academic.oup.com/nsr/advance-article/doi/10.1093/nsr/nwaa036/5775463  it is mentioned in the paper that:    although we found only 4  variability in genomic nucleotides between  sars-cov-2 and a bat sars-related coronavirus  sarsr-cov  ratg13 , the  difference at neutral sites was 17 , suggesting the divergence between  the two viruses is much larger than previously estimated.   their results highlight evolutionary changes in the development of new variations in functional sites in the receptor-binding domain  rbd . these developmental variations have a spike in changes to the rbd of sars-cov-2 and viruses from pangolin sarsr-covs  how do they define s and l variations   they did population genetics on 103 available sars-cov-2 genomes. these two major types are well defined by two snps which show complete linkage across the viral strains.  it also important to mention that sars-cov-2 was found to have 96.2  similairty to a bat sars-related coronavirus  sarsr-cov  ratg13  but not very similar to sars-cov  79   or mers-cov  50  .  how do we know that there is two type   we know there is two types because from the 103 sequenced genomes two snp locations show significant linkage. these are snps at location 8,782  orf1ab: t8517c, synoniumous  and 28,144  orf8: c251t, s84l .  if you have a  ct   as in base pairs  haplotype sars-cov-2 you have got the l-type   l  type because t28,144 is in the codon of leucine . otherwise, if you have got a  tc  haplotype you have the s-type  c28,144 is in the codon of serine .  they found that s-type is the ancient  less aggressive version  by aligning it with other older viruses. in fact for each variant of the virus the ancestral state was inferred by alignments of sars-cov-2  nc 045512 , ratg13, and gd pangolin-cov.  so to be more precise on my answer for finding s and l types. you sequence the genome of an infected individual  you can find these online on ncbi  align it with the current reference sequence  mn908947, nc 045512 , look at the snps and figure if they have a  ct  or  tc  haplotype to determine s or l type. "
"coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in animals. occasionally, people get infected with these viruses which may then spread to other people. for example, sars-cov was associated with civet cats and mers-cov is transmitted by dromedary camels. possible animal sources of covid-19 have not yet been confirmed. to protect yourself, such as when visiting live animal markets, avoid direct contact with animals and surfaces in contact with animals. ensure good food safety practices at all times. handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care to avoid contamination of uncooked foods and avoid consuming raw or undercooked animal products."
"normally, the uk authorities take a dim view of significant changes because they consider that someone who applies for a short visit but then stays very much longer is probably working illegally.  however, these are extraordinary times, and if your wife finds herself stuck because of travel restrictions she should have no problem if she explains that in future visa applications.  note, however, that if she finds that she needs to stay beyond her visa she must contact the authorities to make arrangements for a longer stay.  fwiw, the countries that have imposed travel bans  there is a list on the ny times  have not applied them to their own citizens. your wife is likely to be allowed to travel, but might find it impossible to do so because flights are not available.  "
"generally coronaviruses survive for shorter periods at higher temperatures and higher humidity than in cooler or dryer environments. however, we do not have direct data for this virus, nor do we have direct data for a temperature-based cutoff for inactivation at this point. the necessary temperature would also be based on the materials of the surface, the environment, etc. regardless of temperature please follow cdc is guidance for cleaning and disinfection."
"nice write-up. i think eq 23 is not quite correct though. the observation  y t  should be a function of the state  x t  and noise  v t , like you said in eq 22  y t   h x t    v t .  the issue with eq 23 is that  y t  depends on  y  t-1  . this would break the markov assumption that  x t  is a sufficient state, which is foundational to the kalman filter formulation.  i think the correct approach is to use    x t :   begin bmatrix  s t    i t    r t    d t     alpha t     beta t     gamma t  end bmatrix      this would be considered  augmenting the state   sird  with the parameters    alpha ,  beta ,  gamma   to do a  joint-state-parameter  estimation.  your dynamic would be    x  t 1    begin bmatrix    s   t - frac  s   t  i   t   n  alpha t       i   t - i   t  beta t- i  t gamma t  frac  s   t  i   t   n  alpha t       r   t   i   t  beta t       d   t   i   t  gamma t    f  alpha x t   f  beta x t     f  gamma x t   end bmatrix    w t     you can treat the sird part of the dynamic as deterministic if you so desire by setting its entries of the covariance  q t of  w t  to  0 , though that places all the uncertainty on the initial condition and parameters, which i do not think accurately reflects reality - the sird model is not perfect even with best-fit parameters.  your observation model would be the actual data, which we would consider to be measurements of the sird part of the state, corrupted by noise  which you can remove by making its covariance  r t  approx 0  if you think the sird records are perfect .    y t    begin bmatrix  s t    i t    r t    d t  end bmatrix    v t     as for what you should design for  f  alpha x t   and the other parameter dynamics, i think a random walk is fine  i.e.  f  alpha x t     alpha t  so all the movement is due to the   alpha -component of  w t  . but really i think designing a more sophisticated structure for that is a matter of studying epidemiology more. by creating a structured dynamic for the parameters, you are essentially making a more detailed model than what sird alone captures. such an advanced design should probably be rooted in hard science, else it just becomes excess model capacity ripe for overfitting / poor generalization.  in other words, if you want a model for how the parameters would move, you should come up with an explanation / mechanism for why they would move. what do these parameters mean - what dynamical factors would influence them   by the way, the selection of the noise covariances is pretty critical to the usefulness of the kalman filter. if you are using them as tuning knobs rather than estimating them from data, you might as well just go back to your second approach  nonlinear regression of a multi-step predictor  and just use gauss-newton is method instead of gradient descent for optimization. the extended kalman filter is essentially a covariance-weighted recursive application of gauss-newton least-squares. "
"the who was clearly wary that human-to-human transmission may be a factor at the beginning of january - although their initial disease outbreak news  don  of january 5th entitled  pneumonia of unknown cause - china  states that:    according to the authorities, some patients were operating dealers or  vendors in the huanan seafood market. based on the preliminary  information from the chinese investigation team, no evidence of  significant human-to-human transmission and no health care worker  infections have been reported.   they also note that all patients are being isolated, and that close contacts of patients are being identified and monitored, which indicates that this avenue was being investigated.  further advice published on 10th january also indicated that:    from the currently available information, preliminary investigation  suggests that there is no significant human-to-human transmission, and  no infections among health care workers have occurred.   but again, warned that travellers should take measures such as      avoiding close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory infections   frequent hand-washing, especially after direct contact with ill people or their environment   travellers with symptoms of acute respiratory infection should practice cough etiquette  maintain distance, cover coughs and sneezes  with disposable tissues or clothing, and wash hands .     according to the who covid-19 timeline is entry for january 14th:    dr. maria van kerkhove noted in a press briefing there had been  limited human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus  in the 41  confirmed cases , mainly through family members, and that there was a  risk of a possible wider outbreak. dr. kerkhove noted that  human-to-human transmission would not be surprising given our  experience with sars, mers and other respiratory pathogens.   after who officials from its china and western pacific regional offices conducted a brief field visit to wuhan from the 20th-21st of jan, the latter office published a twitter thread on january 21st stating that as a result of the increasing number of cases of the virus   it is now very clear  ...  that there is at least some human-to-human transmission of  ncov2019 . the thread also states that  more information and analysis are needed on this new virus to understand the full extent of human-to-human transmission and other important details .   additionally, on the 21st of january, the don for the spread of the disease in the republic of korea contained the phrase  the extent of human-to-human transmission , the first don not to question the existence of human-to-human transmission, but rather its extent.  a more formal announcement was made by the who mission to china on the 22nd of january which states that:    data collected through detailed epidemiological investigation and  through the deployment of the new test kit nationally suggests that  human-to-human transmission is taking place in wuhan. more analysis of  the epidemiological data is needed to understand the full extent of  human-to-human transmission. who stands ready to provide support to  china to conduct further detailed analysis.   in conclusion then, while human-to-human transmission was suspected to be present from the initial who don on january 5th, this was not confirmed until after data observed in the field in wuhan by members of the who china  amp  western pacific regional offices was thought to show that human-to-human transmission was clearly a factor. these field investigations took place on the 20th-21st of january, and announcements acknowledging this conclusion were first made on the 21st. "
"no. the virus that causes covid-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars  in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different. sars was more deadly but much less infectious than covid-19. there have been no outbreaks of sars anywhere in the world since 2003."
"while the sars-cov-2 virus can linger on surfaces from anywhere to a couple of hours to a few days, dr. isaac bogoch said it is not necessary to wipe down groceries after buying them at the store.   i think if people go to the grocery store, they get groceries, i think it is just fair to put them away,  he told ctv is your morning.  as for fruits and vegetables, bogoch said there is no need to take any extra precautions with those and people can simply wash them with tap water before eating them, as they normally should.   "
"a study of more than 72,000 cases in mainland china found that at least one person between ten and 19 years of age had died, but no one younger than ten had died. a subsequent study in the journal pediatrics found that a 14-year-old boy from china died in february after contracting the coronavirus.  it was not immediately clear if anyone younger had died elsewhere in the world.  by comparison, at least 155 children in the u.s. have died after contracting the flu so far this flu season, according to the cdc."
"first: we are not able to answer legal questions, so do not take this as really addressing the legal side of things. look up those details in your area specifically or ask a lawyer for that.  in general, visitation is likely still possible currently. see this advice from nolo:    how do social distancing rules affect custody arrangements       the social distancing and shelter-in-place rules do not directly affect custody orders, so you should continue following your current custody arrangement unless you and your ex agree to an alternative plan or a judge changes your custody order.    courts are making it clear that disobeying court orders or withholding visitation during this time will not be tolerated and may result in contempt of court. but if you have valid concerns about your child is health and safety, you can try communicating with your ex to see what you can both do to reduce the risks to your child.    within a family unit, creating an effective social distancing plan can be as simple as adopting rules for parents and children to follow within their home. but for divorced or separated parents, social distancing and staying healthy when children are going back and forth between two households can be challenging.     an example of a state issuing guidance on this is delaware:    to be clear, neither the state of emergency nor the seventh modification interferes with or invalidates any existing family court order regarding custody or visitation. custody and visitation orders remain in full force and effect. travel  including interstate travel  for the purposes of complying with a family court order is considered essential travel and permitted. such travel was deemed essential in governor carney is fifth modification to the covid-19 state of emergency declaration issued march 22, 2020. under the seventh modification, such travel remains essential and is excluded from the selfquarantine requirement.    cnn indicates that some states have more vague language, however:    other states have left rulings vague. in massachusetts, for example, john d. casey, chief justice of probate and family court, last week issued an open letter that said,  both parents should cooperate.    some states are apparently encouraging  but not requiring  virtual visitation, such as vermont:    how is the department for children and families dealing with social distancing       according to johnson, dcf has called its families to ask if they would be willing to have virtual visitations.     that all said: you should consider the risks that visitation would bring. if your child, or anyone in either household, is in the  high risk  category, for example a child who is immunocompromised due to medication, or an elderly parent living at home with the family, it may be appropriate to limit or eliminate in person visitation. that would depend on an agreement between the two parents, though, to modify the arrangements temporarily  it would not be automatic.  it is highly recommended to have a conversation with your ex-partner, and be clear about your concerns and open to creative ideas. it may be safer to have fewer handoffs for longer periods of time - if it is normally 5 days / 2 days, then perhaps 3 weeks / 1 week is possible, for example, if the normally noncustodial parent is not working or is working at home and able to spend time with the child. the linked cnn article above has more recommendations along these lines.   facetime/skype/zoom/etc. are good options for maintaining contact with the child without personal contact. many activities can take place over videochat  reading a book to them, playing a board game virtually  one person moves pieces for the other player of course  or some games, like battleship, can be played completely remotely   online games, of course, as well.  "
"this situation has not been fully characterised yet and has not been reported in the cases as a significant presentation before. but ent uk has issued the following advisory and hopes to stall the inappropriate use of steroids for anosmia    there is already good evidence from south korea, china and italy that significant numbers of patients with proven covid-19 infection have developed anosmia/hyposmia. in germany it is reported that more than 2 in 3 confirmed cases have anosmia. in south korea, where testing has been more widespread, 30  of patients testing positive have had anosmia as their major presenting symptom in otherwise mild cases.     in addition, there have been a rapidly growing number of reports of a significant increase in the number of patients presenting with anosmia in the absence of other symptoms - this has been widely shared on medical discussion boards by surgeons from all regions managing a high incidence of cases. iran has reported a sudden increase in cases of isolated anosmia, and many colleagues from the us, france and northern italy have the same experience. i have personally seen four patients this week, all under 40, and otherwise asymptomatic except for the recent onset of anosmia - i usually see roughly no more than one a month. i think these patients may be some of the hitherto hidden carriers that have facilitated the rapid spread of covid-19. unfortunately, these patients do not meet current criteria for testing or self-isolation.    while there is a chance the apparent increase in incidence could merely reflect the attention covid-19 has attracted in the media, and that such cases may be caused by typical rhinovirus and coronavirus strains, it could potentially be used as a screening tool to help identify otherwise asymptomatic patients, who could then be better instructed on self-isolation.    given the potential for covid-19 to present with anosmia, and the reports that corticosteroid use may increase the severity of infection, we would advise against use of oral steroids in the treatment of new onset anosmia during the pandemic, particularly if it is unrelated to head trauma or nasal pathology  such as nasal polyps .    there is potential that if any adult with anosmia but no other symptoms was asked to self-isolate for seven days, in addition to the current symptom criteria used to trigger quarantine, we might be able to reduce the number of otherwise asymptomatic individuals who continue to act as vectors, not realising the need to self-isolate. it will also be an important trigger for healthcare personnel to employ full ppe and help to counter the higher rates of infection found amongst ent surgeons compared to other healthcare workers.    http://www.entuk.org/loss-sense-smell-marker-covid-19-infection "
"expecting an overnight reply to any email is unrealistic. he may have some issues of his own to deal with, given the worldwide pandemic. he will probably reply  in good time , but by his standards.   whether you are allowed to take a make up or not we can not say here. it is up to him and to the institution. i hope it is allowed and expect it would be given the family emergency. but the other things you mention have little bearing on the issue.   but waiting a week after the missed exam was not wise, and expecting an instant reply after you did not offer an explanation for a week is a bit  over the top .   i suggest that you wait to see what the reply is. there probably is not really a need for instant action at this point.  "
"the current outbreak is the world is first pandemic caused by a coronavirus, a family of virsuses that includes the covid-19 virus, according to the head of the who.    while more people in the u.s. were infected by and died after contracting the flu in 1968 and 2009, the new coronavirus has infected and killed more people in the u.s. than did sars, mers, ebola or zika.    by comparison, the 1968  hong kong flu  pandemic was caused by an influenza a virus and killed an estimated 1 million people worldwide, with about 100,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. the 2009  swine flu  pandemic was caused by an h1n1 subtype of the influenza a virus and killed at least 151,000 people worldwide during the first year the virus circulated, with more than 12,000 deaths in the u.s., according to the cdc. "
"in summary, the authors are saying the complete opposite of  human intervention .    while the analyses above suggest that sars-cov-2 may bind human ace2  with high affinity, computational analyses predict that the  interaction is not ideal and that the rbd sequence is different from  those shown in sars-cov to be optimal for receptor binding.   the interaction with ace2 is taking place on the spike protein  s  in both covid-19 and sars-cov. the s protein is very different between covid-19 and sars both in terms of sequence and covid-19 includes an additional furin cleavage site, meaning structurally it is quite distinct. the  computational analysis predicts  is difficult because there is no crystal structure for covid-19 s protein therefore modelling ligand binding is essentially guess work, particularly as it comprises an additional  furin  cleaved domain. what the authors appear to conclude is that they cannot map ace2-spike binding of covid-19 using an established sars s protein structure. i assume they are homology modelling sars-cov onto covid-19 s protein sequence data. in my personal opinion there is no way to homology model an additional furin protease cleavage site  furin is a host protease  so it would be difficult for  good fit  to occur, but it is just my opinion and the authors may have established methods to overcome this notable limitation, e.g. similar phenomena occur in influenza.     thus, the high-affinity binding of the sars-cov-2 spike protein to  human ace2 is most likely the result of natural selection..   their conclusion of  natural selection  is not strictly accurate and should be  darwinian positive selection , but its a small issue. what they are saying is darwinian adaptation has occurred as opposed to  purifying selection, i.e. conservation. thus they are definitely excluding human intervention because that is not  natural selection     furthermore, if genetic manipulation had been performed, one of the  several reverse-genetic systems available for betacoronaviruses would  probably have been used   they appear to be saying that if a synthetic virus was constructed it would be created using an established reverse genetics system, and all those produced to date look nothing like covid-19.  the phylogenetics argument is always a stronger argument than either of the above  although my opinion is not entirely objective . phylogeneticists have had a long history in opposing conspiracy theories, e.g. polio vaccination, hiv and the list goes on, so it is much more natural territory. an example of such an argument is here which  terdon helpfully pointed out. "
"  hydrogen peroxide-based systems for cleaning, disinfecting, and storing contact lenses should be effective against the virus that causes covid-19.  for other disinfection methods, such as multipurpose solution and ultrasonic cleaners, there is currently not enough scientific evidence to determine efficacy against the virus.   always use solution to disinfect your contact lenses and case to kill germs that may be present. handle your lenses over a surface that has been cleaned and disinfected.  find more information about how coronavirus spreads and how to protect yourself. visit cdc is contact lens website for more information on healthy contact lens wear and care."
"contrary to some statements, flights have not been banned. only some  well, many  people are banned.  as there will be a huge drop in the number of people travelling on those flights, many flights will be cancelled, but at this stage there is no indication that they will stop altogether.  airlines are scrambling to try to adjust their schedules to the demand, to changing bans and regulations, you should monitor the status of the flights, as rebooking may be necessary. "
"to prepare copper acetate absence h2o2, employ a known method from hydrometallurgy to process copper ore employing aqueous ammonia, air  a source of oxygen  and a small amount of salt  acting as an electrolyte for this, in part, spontaneous electrochemical reaction detailed below . this results in tetra-ammine copper hydroxide. the latter exists only in solution and upon evaporation yields cuo  and possibly some cu2o also, see this old patent . add an acid of choice  like vinegar, a source of acetate  to convert cuo into copper acetate.   related copper chemistry with ammonia and oxygen:  cited half-reactions:    ce 1/2 o2   h2o   2 e- - gt  2 oh-    cathodic reduction of o2 at surface of the copper   and, at the copper anode, the formation of the complex:    ce cu   4 nh3   2 h2o - gt   cu nh3 4 h2o 2  2     2 e-    anodic dissolution of cu by a complexing agent   with an overall reaction:    ce cu   4 nh3   1/2 o2   3 h2o - gt   cu nh3 4 h2o 2  2     2 oh-    also, some interesting cited standard chemical reactions, where copper oscillates between cuprous and cupric states as noted by the source below:    ce 2 cu   4 nh3   1/2 o2   h2o - gt  2  cu nh3 2 oh      ce 2 cu nh3 2 oh   4 nh3  aq    1/2 o2   h2o - gt  2  cu nh3 4  oh 2      ce cu    cu nh3 4  oh 2  lt -- gt  2  cu nh3 2 oh    reference:  kinetics and mechanism of copper dissolution in aqueous ammonia  and a related work detailing reactions:  copper dissolution in ammonia solutions: identification of the mechanism at low overpotentials , which is also a fully available pdf.  some alternate preparations would be to follow paths to copper patina  see this site, which discusses three paths for the home chemists which includes an embodiment of the ammonia prep, and, with the addition of vinegar, would convert the basic copper carbonate to copper acetate. "
"it is a tempting idea, is not it  to explore a national park and be away from other people. unfortunately, it was also a popular idea. as millions of americans were asked to stay at home, so many of them decamped to national parks that in mid-march the national park service  ordered three of the busiest  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/us/coronavirus-national-parks- closed.html  -- yellowstone, grand teton and the great smoky mountains -- to close because of congestion."
"as already outlined in some of the comments, it is impossible to achieve what you want: you cannot control a computer to this extent without a severe invasion that would go far beyond anything that i would allow you to do on my computer due to privacy and security concerns. unless you want to video-monitor students, you can also not prevent students from using a second computer, a virtual machine, or having somebody else working on their computer for them. and even then you need at least two cameras to see everything that the student is doing or that is happening to them and you would have to frequently check that they are working themselves, did not rig the video, etc.  on a more general level, controlling cheating on any exam that is based on limiting resources is already difficult if you do it in a setting that you can control  i.e., your room, your computers, your toilets, etc. . by taking this battle to the  enemy is territory  and limiting your knowledge, you can only lose.  i would thus suggest the following alternative. this is how my programming practicals were done when i was a student. i also successfully applied this to a programming  exam  in a course i co-organised.   the students do the programming practical with no restrictions except time. for example, they may use the entire internet, course material, etc. after they submit the code, there is a short oral exam on the code. depending on the details of your course, you can very this exam in length and relevance, with the extreme examples being:   you grade the code and the oral exam only serves to ensure that the students did not cheat  and may be as short as five minutes . you only check that the code is doing what it is supposed to do, while the oral exam determines the grade and may also contain questions about other aspects of the course and deeper understanding. here, the oral exams may cost more time, but you also spend less time looking at their submissions.  if applicable, also perform plagiarism checks on the code.   some pros and cons of this approach:   you somehow have to organise remote oral exams, but these could be just via the phone, if that suffices to establish the examinee is identity for you. also be prepared that this mode will amplify anxiety, language, and other issues for some students  while it reduces them for others . you may need to modify your tasks to account for full internet access and similar, for example it should not be anything to which a bazillion of solutions exists. depending on your topic, this may be very difficult. the exam is more realistic: except for taking exams, your students will have internet access for the rest of their career and using it properly is also a relevant skill. the oral exam allows you to gauge actual understanding, whereas the purely written exam may be solved by rote-memorising algorithms, etc.  in case of group work, you do not need to worry much about some incompetent student benefiting from a stronger partner.  i am aware that this point does not apply to you  i mention it only for completeness.   "
"the risk of catching covid-19 from the feces of an infected person appears to be low. while initial investigations suggest the virus may be present in feces in some cases, spread through this route is not a main feature of the outbreak. because this is a risk, however, it is another reason to clean hands regularly, after using the bathroom and before eating."
"who has detailed recommendations on the amount of physical activity people of all ages should do to benefit their health and wellbeing.  available here for children under age of 5 and here for youth, adults and olders  here are the minimum levels we recommend:infants under the age of 1 year need to be physically active several times a day.children under 5 years of age should spend at least 180 minutes a day in physical activities, with 3-4 year-olds being moderately or vigorously active for an hour a day.children and adolescents aged 5-17yearsall children and adolescents should do at least 60 minutes a day of moderate to vigorous-intensity physical activity, including activities that strengthen muscle and bone, at least 3 days per week.adults aged over 18 years should do a total of at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity throughout the week, or at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity physical activity throughout the week, including muscle-strengthening activities 2 or more days perweek.older adults with poor mobility should do physical activity to enhance balance and prevent falls on 3 or more days per week. but any physical activity is better than none. start with small amounts and gradually increase duration, frequency and intensity over time. being active during the covid-19 pandemic is challenging for us all. because the opportunities to be physically active seem to be more restricted, it is even more important to plan in every day the ways to be active and to reduce the time spentsitting for long periods. put simply, it is a critical time to ensure we all move more and sit less."
"as covid-19 is spread through droplets, it can reach us through the air. therefore, maintain social distancing, which means remaining 6 feet away from others. ideally, you should not touch any surface on which droplets may have landed. the best way to protect yourself from exposed surfaces is to wash your hands frequently with soap and water for a count of 20. the children is book coronavirus you can not scare me teaches kids through pictures and rhyme:  i wash my hands throughout the day/ and count from one to twenty/ the palms, the backs, the fingernails/ with soap and water plenty.  coronavirus you can not scare me written by the author the best way to ensure you are doing all the above is to stay home if you can. talk to your friends and family on the phone, social media, skype or zoom."
"you can force ets   to use a model with multiplicative trend  and multiplicative error  by using the parameter model  mmn . of course, you need to start the series later, since multiplicative trends and errors do not make sense for zero values.  temp3  lt - ts temp - 1:9  , start   c 2020, 32 ,   frequency   365.25  test  lt - ets temp3,model  mmn   test   gt   forecast ., h   14    gt   autoplot       i certainly hope this graphic is what you wanted.  it also illustrates why ets   is very careful about fitting multiplicative trends on its own. they can and will explode. also:    i do not like fitting a exponential regression model as this will not catch up when the exponential part of the epidemic stops.   of course, ets   will not know when to stop extrapolating the exponential growth, so this  extremely correct  rationale applies equally to ets  . you may want to consider models that are explicitly tailored towards epidemiology or  market  penetration, like the bass diffusion model or similar.  edit: rob hyndman explains in more depth why smoothing and similar models do not make a lot of sense to forecast covid-19, and gives pointers to more appropriate models. and here is ivan svetunkov. "
"if you can, you should stay home from work when you are sick, whether or not you have coronavirus.   many companies are increasingly flexible with work from home policies. if your company is allowing employees to work from home, consider it. some companies have enforced working from home.   if you must go into work, maintain 6 feet of distance from your colleagues, wash your hands frequently and practice good respiratory etiquette by coughing or sneezing into your elbow.  avoid handshakes, switch in-person meetings to teleconferences and disinfect your workspace with epa-approved products at the start of your shift."
"while children appear to be less affected by the virus, elderly people and those with other medical issues are more at risk of suffering a severe outcome from a covid-19 infection. for families that have both seniors and young children living under the same roof, bogoch said they should take care to separate them if anyone shows symptoms. however, he said that should be the case for anyone who is living with others and exhibits any symptoms, such as fever, coughing, and difficulty breathing.   you just have to be very mindful if anyone has any symptoms whatsoever they should be separated,  he said."
"it seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. the pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out."
"  does that mean every one in the world at some point has to get infected until a vaccine is invented    no. there are many infectous diseases which are only regional, or have been almost eradicated. countries free of  this or that  disease need to act quickly on imported cases, if the disease is highly infectuous.   on the other hand, if the spread of a pathogen in a  say closed  region is slowed down substantially, people who have developed immunity in this region will generally make the reproductive factor of the epidemic lower - and thus make it easier to contain its spread.   you may have a look at the last simulation in: http://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/world/corona-simulator/ where the epidemic can in many cases self-extinguish itself by that effect.  "
"i do not know about nyc, i live in nc. since our state and county governments began issuing stay at home orders, i have noticed an incredible number of people gathered in our parks - far more than what i would see on a typical day.  the entrances to our state parks were closed, but access to lakes is still available for boats. it has not been uncommon to drive by a lake access point and see hundreds of people tightly gathered by the loading ramps. trail-heads which on a great day would have 1 or 2 cars parked now have as many as 20 or 30. and i have never seen church parking lots so packed.  so, if nyc is anything like where i live, it would not be at all surprising to find community parks jammed.  from what we hear on a daily basis, we need to stay home except for essential requirements. we need to stay at least 6 feet from anyone not in our immediate family  as in those living under the same roof . and even more recently, we need to be wearing masks when out in public. we should not be hanging out with groups of more than 10 people  and that is not so much for viral safety, that is for social sanity . and like any virus, it makes no difference if it is passed indoors or out. the chance of infection remains the same either way. "
"no, there is no evidence that pets such as cats and dogs have been infected or could spread the virus that causes covid-19, according to the who.  last month, the pet dog of a coronavirus patient in hong kong tested  weak  positive for covid-19 and was put in quarantine. scientists concluded that pet cats and dogs can test positive for low levels of the pathogen if they catch it from their owners, but pets can not get sick from the virus."
"while it has clearly been shown by the virility of the virus so far that travel restrictions will not stop the inevitable community spread of the illness, and that their effectiveness as impeding the spread of the virus is small, the aim of the policy is no longer to stop the virus, but to delay it. this was confirmed as current policy in the uk is response to the virus by the chief medical officer, professor chris whitty, on march 5th.  there are a few reasons why this is the goal of many governments. firstly, if the peak of the pandemic can be delayed, this allows plans to be put in place for management of the crisis. for example, in the uk, plans have been floated that would allow final year medical students and trainee doctors to take on hospital duties during the nine week period that the virus is currently predicted to have the highest effect on the nhs, in order to mitigate the strain on the service.  secondly, delaying the spread of the virus allows time for a vaccine to be developed. while research on this is progressing quickly, it will still take time for the vaccine to pass clinical trials and be approved for human usage. in addition, as  patricia shanahan points out in the comments, the effectiveness of existing drugs already approved for treating similar respiratory diseases can be evaluated, which could be ready sooner than developing brand new drugs or a vaccine.  finally, as health services are acknowledged as being under the most strain during the winter months, the best time for the pandemic to peak would be in the middle of summer.  to this end, the policy of travel bans, while having been shown to be relatively ineffective at preventing the spread of the disease outright, is being used to delay the spread of the virus as much as possible, to allow national governments to prepare for the full impact of the peak of the predicted pandemic. "
"alejandro, you are right, the electrolytes will make a difference. the difference is not in terms of hydrogen production per se, as maurice mentions in the comments, it will be in terms of energy saving. electrolytic reactions are  exact  in the sense that if 100 electrons reach the electrode from a battery, 100 hydrogen ions will be reduced. in other words,  1 mole of electrons will reduce exactly 1 mole of a monovalent ion, 1/2 mole of a divalent, 1/3 mole of a trivalent ion and so on.  you would probably like to have an electrolyte which has the least electrical resistance. now you may recall that the proton in water    hydrogen ion  has the least electrical resistance known today. what comes next  hydroxide ions.  all you have to search and study is the conductivity of electrolytes at various concentrations. "
"the date of the census is not specified in the us constitution. it only says    the actual enumeration shall be made within three years after the first meeting of the congress of the united states, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall by law direct.   there is no requirement that  ten years  be interpreted precisely to the day. the date is fixed by statute at 13 usc 141 a :    the secretary shall, in the year 1980 and every 10 years thereafter, take a decennial census of population as of the first day of april of such year....   this requires that the census seek data describing the population on april 1, 2020. it does not require that census workers actually visit people on that day. they could conceivably do it in mid august, for example, or at any other time. of course, that would probably reduce the reliability of the census. congress could pass a law moving the census date to another later date if they wanted to get a more accurate count of the population on that date instead of a less accurate count of the population on the first of april.    in fact, when i got home later in the day after writing this answer, there was a letter from the census bureau inviting me to submit my census survey through the internet. i did that a few minutes ago, so if i die in the next two weeks, the census will be off by one.  the letter i got says that if i do not fill out the survey online, they will send me a paper questionnaire. if i do not fill that out, someone will come to visit. the prospect of that happening on april 1st seems quite remote. "
"only wear a mask if you are ill with covid-19 symptoms  especially coughing  or looking after someone who may have covid-19. disposable face mask can only be used once. if you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. there is a world-wide shortage of masks, so who urges people to use masks wisely.who advises rational use of medical masks to avoid unnecessary wastage of precious resources and mis-use of masks  see advice on the use of masks . the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing. seebasic protective measures against the new coronavirus for more information."
"current symptoms reported for patients with covid-19 have included mild to severe respiratory illness with fever1, cough, and difficulty breathing. read about covid-19 symptoms."
"scientists advising the government told them that, with appropriate measures  such as soap everywhere,  1m distance between everyone, etc. , it was no more dangerous than going to buy some food, which is still authorized. the full scientific advice has not been published yet  it should be though , but here is the head of the scientific committee confirming it :    le conseil scientifique a considere qu il n y avait pas d element  pour penser qu il y aurait un surrisque pour ces personnes a condition  que les elections soient organisees de facon pratique    the scientific committee considered there was no element indicating  more risk  to go vote than to go shopping  for those people  elderly  people , if the elections are organized in a practical way.   there is also a question of politics and timing : on thursday morning all parties asked that it be maintained  in particular the right-wing senate president, who is now blamed for it , so they had to decide that.  however, later the same day, the confinement measures were decided, which seemed to contradict the possibility to vote. but politically it was too late, cancelling the elections would go against advice given by all parties on thursday morning.  since macron was expected to lose the elections  which he mostly did , cancelling the election after every other party expressed against it would have been seen as an antidemocratic political maneuver.  some of the opposition parties have since then declared that they only accepted to maintain the elections before the confinement measures were decided, and thus that they could not decide in all knowledge, and would have changed their minds after the confinement measures were announced. "
"illness due to covid-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. however, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. it is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the covid-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones. we can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. first and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings."
"it is hard to know exactly what another person is thinking, but merkel is probably referencing herd immunity.  assuming that people who are infected and recover will be less susceptible to infection in the future  the extent to which is currently unknown , those people have effectively been naturally vaccinated, which can help slow down future spread. "
" wouldangerous  is quite a subjective term, and can be defined in different ways.  viruses vary in their pathogenicity, which is essentially the ability of the virus to cause a disease in a single individual. this can influence other factors, such as the case fatality rate, which is the proportion of people who die from the disease once they have contracted it. for example, the ebola virus has a very high case fatality rate of up to 90 .  however, those are not the only ways in which you could define wouldangerous . we might also consider the total number of people that the virus can kill. this often is not a linear relationship with the case fatality rate. often, viruses with a high case fatality rate  burn out  before than can inflict a global pandemic, because people die before they can spread the disease on to others. vice versa, viruses with a relatively low case fatality rate, such as the spanish flu  2-3   can be extremely wouldangerous  and kill millions of people.   but there is no hard and fast rule, as the propensity of a virus to cause a global pandemic is influenced by many, many other factors.   so to answer your question: is it possible for the covid-19 to mutate into something as dangerous as ebola  well, if we are thinking about it is pathogenicity - influenza a h5n1  bird flu  had a case fatality rate of about 60 , which is pretty high for a flu virus. for context, the seasonal flu which has a case fatality rate of about 0.1 . i am not an expert in virology, so it would be great if someone with more knowledge could confirm this, but it seems very unlikely that the covid-19 virus could acquire mutations to the degree where it would kill as high as 90  of the people who acquire it, like ebola does. ebola is a hemorrhagic virus, which is a totally different mechanism of pathogenicity to the coronavirus family.   it is plausible that covid-19 could obtain mutations which allow it to transfer more quickly between humans. for example, we know that the spanish flu acquired mutations in hemagglutinin subtype which allowed it to be more transmissible between humans. generally, coronaviruses have relatively lower r0 rates than other disease   2/3 compared to measles which is 12-18 . the total number of people killed by the ebola outbreak was about 11,000. covid-19 has already killed  3000  although the exact figure is hard to quantify , so it seems like on the global level, covid-19 will be more dangerous than ebola, if we consider the total number of people killed.  "
"yes, but it depends on what kind of test you do.  if you do an antibody test, in theory it could show that you had the virus and then recovered,  hotez said.  to do an antibody test, you would need to have blood drawn. but coronavirus tests in the u.s. are not being done this way."
"ice has a degree of authority to deport without court hearing, via an expedited process. the legal framework for such deportations are explained here, and rely on 8 usc 1225. the secretary of dhs has authority to establish rules, and has recently done so here. the current regulations pertaining to expedited removal are at 8 cfr 253.3. there is no exemption for people being medically treated, for covid-19 or any other reason, but  parole  is available  at the discretion of the attorney general  to  parole  an immigrant if it is  is required to meet a medical emergency . thus an illegal immigrant in the icu might be exempt from immediate deportation, but that is at the discretion of the ag. state and local officials do not have the authority to interfere in the enforcement of federal law, even if the state or municipality has declared itself a  sanctuary . the criminal penalties for interference are spelled out here  no law compells cooperation, the law simply prohibits forcible interference. "
"  is filing i-539 the easiest way to extend her stay at this time    yes. it is also the hardest way. it is the only way.  more seriously, there could be some sort of amnesty or other program offered to nonimmigrants in the us who are affected by the pandemic. if that happens, it could save you a few hundred dollars.  but i would not count on it. i certainly have not heard any mention of it, and the current administration is profoundly anti-immigrant, so it is unlikely to happen without political pressure.  in terms of risk analysis, the application fee will be well spent.    if so, is it possible to waive the fee due to the corona virus situation    applying for a fee waiver is going to make her look like someone with financial problems, which will have a negative impact on her application as well as future applications for admission to the us. i would not do it.    after filing i-539 should she wait for an approval to continue her stay  or is the receipt good enough    once the application is filed, she can remain until it is refused, or, if it is granted, until the end of the period of extended stay that is granted. "
"the main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. the risk of catching covid-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. however, many people with covid-19 experience only mild symptoms. this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. it is therefore possible to catch covid-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill. who is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of covid-19 and will continue to share updated findings."
"you can encourage your child to help stop the spread of covid-19 by teaching them to do the same things everyone should do to stay healthy.  avoid close contact with people who are sick. stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care. cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash. wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects  e.g., tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles . launder items, including washable plush toys, as appropriate and in accordance with the manufacturer is instructions. if possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people is items.  you can find additional information on preventing covid-19 at prevention for 2019 novel coronavirus and at preventing covid-19 spread in communities. additional information on how covid-19 is spread is available at how covid-19 spreads. more information on children and coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  is available online."
"advice by country  australia   http://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/   canada   http://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/diseases/2019-novel-coronavirus-infection/canadas-reponse.html acb   france   http://www.gouvernement.fr/info-coronavirus   germany   deutsche bahn: http://www.bahn.de/p/view/service/aktuell/index.shtml   iceland   www.covid.is   india   http://www.mohfw.gov.in/  tab travel advisories  http://boi.gov.in/ no international flights to land in india from march 22 - march 29 april 14 all passenger trains and domestic flights stopped till march 31.   israel   http://govextra.gov.il/ministry-of-health/corona/corona-virus-en/   italy   http://www.salute.gov.it/portale/nuovocoronavirus/dettagliofaqnuovocoronavirus.jsp lingua italiano amp id 228   luxembourg   http://msan.gouvernement.lu/en/dossiers/2020/corona-virus.html   netherlands   http://www.rivm.nl/en/news/current-information-about-novel-coronavirus-covid-19   new zealand   http://www.immigration.govt.nz/about-us/covid-19/border-closures-and-exceptions   singapore   http://www.ica.gov.sg/covid-19 only citizens, pr and limited work pass holders allowed entry. no transit for visitors. all travelers to fill arrival card before arriving in singapore from march 27.   sweden   public health agency krisinformation.se - emergency information from swedish authorities   switzerland   federal office of public health entry restrictions   uk   http://www.gov.uk/guidance/travel-advice-novel-coronavirus   usa   http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/summary.html what are the current travel restrictions on individuals entering the united states from regions affected by novel coronavirus     general-purpose advice  air travel information   iata has the most up-to-date information on the topic: http://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-news/1580226297.htm wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/travel restrictions related to the 2019 e2 80 9320 coronavirus pandemic timatic search: http://cms.olympicair.com/timatic/webdocsi/countryinfo.html  general , http://cms.olympicair.com/timatic/webdocsi/spdbmainv.html  specific    booking sites policies   booking.com: cancelling booking on booking.com due to covid-19  "
"the most common symptoms of coronavirus are fever, sore throat, dry cough and fatigue. other symptoms can also include headaches, nasal congestion or a runny nose.  diarrhea and nausea have also been reported as symptoms but they are less common."
"top healthcare officials say the us does not have enough stockpiled medical equipment like masks, gowns and gloves to meet the anticipated need as this pandemic grows.  there are several reasons hospitals are on track to face dire shortages, said dr. william schaffner, an infectious disease expert and professor at vanderbilt university medical center.    about 20 or 30 years ago, we decided that we would not over-hospitalize,  schaffner said.  back then, hospitals often had empty hospital beds for new patients. but now, many hospitals are  absolutely full,  schaffner said.  we have under-built hospital beds because they are very expensive.   also, americans have grown accustomed to  just-in-time  ordering. but that becomes a huge problem when international supply chains are disrupted by an outbreak.  we did not anticipate international turbulence influencing this,  schaffner said.  now, some health care workers are making their own masks. they have also been told they can use bandanas or scarves as masks."
"many countries are advising their citizens to return home while they still can. you should make plans to leave as soon as possible. contact your airline to arrange new flights. if that proves impossible contact your embassy and ukvi to find out what your options are. rules can be changed at short notice in extreme circumstances. what is not possible today may be perfectly possible tomorrow. do not just let your visa expire.  there is no mechanism to extend a standard visitor visa. you might be able to claim force majeure if you were trapped in the uk and had no alternative but to overstay, but currently you do have viable options to leave. as an aside, hopefully you are already aware that there are restrictions on visitors carrying out volunteering activities, see app3  4    compiled from the comments "
"covid-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 2019."
"i live in guangdong, and this is what i have been seeing  amp  reading about.  wuhan  city in hubei  is where the outbreak supposedly began. and it went unnoticed for a while, which mean it was spreading locally more-so than it was spreading nationally/internationally. near at the start of the chinese new year holiday, the government decided to quarantine all of hubei province. so while other provinces already had infected people, they spread had not grown as significantly as it had in hubei yet.  the chinese government then decided to take specific measures to control the epidemic. for starters, they required mask-wearing and encouraged staying indoors. they also began to set up body temperature checks all over the place  apartments, neighborhoods, roads leading into cities, and places of work once the holiday ended. fever seems to be the first symptom, so this is why .  if anyone in an apartment building was confirmed to have the virus, then the entire building and all residents were/are quarantined for 14 days  happened to a 30  story apartment building next to mine . elevators, doors, and other public spaces are often disinfected, particularly if a suspected case had been in the area. again, i saw this at a temperature checkpoint, someone must have had a fever and a little bit later some folks came and sprayed down the area.  schools are also closed in all provinces across the country, and students are doing online schooling. some companies are also allowing employees to work from home, or istaggering  their work days  half come in into the office on mon, wed, fri, the other half come in tuesday and thursday . this decreases the number of people a possible infected person can pass the virus to.  on top of this, companies needed to  apply  to be able to resume work. here in shenzhen, nobody could return to work within 14 days of returning from the city, assuming they left during the holiday. we also need to record down our body temp when coming to and leaving from work. according to an sms i received from the local government, if 2 employees have a body temperature    37.3c, then it needs to be reported immediately, as it indicates a possible spread in that workplace.  in short, the virus was able to take a foothold in hubei, and it was noticed before it took a significant foothold in other provinces. therefore other provinces had time to implement proactive and preventative measures, before the situation grew to hubei-level of significance.  the best way to prevent it from spreading is simple steps, such as not going outside unless its necessary, avoid close contact with others  defined as within 6 feet for an extended period of time , washing your hands, and disinfecting often-touched surfaces like door knobs, keyboards, cell phones, etc. it remains to be seen whether other countries will take the same rather drastic measures that are being taken in china, i suppose it all depends on how bad things get in other countries. "
"specifically with reference to the uk, an article in the guardian reports that     experts have warned about the risk that if tough measures are taken too soon,  fatigue  may set in, prompting the public to disregard the advice just as the virus reaches its peak.   effectively the argument is that, absent some sort of enforcement squad if people are told to stay in lockdown for a significant period, without a significant scare factor to justify it, then people will assume the risk is actually overblown and start mingling again, just at the moment that many of them are at their most contagious, starting a whole new outbreak in the herd of uninfected. "
"last week, the u.k. government signaled that it might be considering a different approach to coronavirus control than the rest of the world -- in essence, allowing a large percentage of the population to become infected in order to develop a  herd immunity  that would eventually end the epidemic. herd immunity occurs when enough people in a population are immune to disease -- either because they have been infected and recovered or they have been vaccinated against it. the idea is that the pool of people who can catch the disease has been reduced, reducing the risk to the so-far unaffected. sir patrick vallance, the u.k. government is chief scientific adviser, said that about 60  of the population would need to get the coronavirus in order to get a herd immunity effect. but using such an approach would raise a big question: during that spread, how do you protect the most vulnerable groups - the elderly and those with underlying medical conditions  herd immunity works with contagious diseases like measles, for which a vaccine exists. but the idea that the u.k. would not immediately work to suppress the number of cases, especially as there are no approved treatments for covid-19 yet and the disease has killed thousands in italy, stirred an immediate public backlash. the government quickly backtracked, and on friday, prime minister boris johnson said all restaurants, pubs and gyms would close for the foreseeable future to reduce transmission. and there is no certainty that herd immunity would even work for coronavirus. that approach  assumes that people being infected are immune and cannot get re-infected. and we do not know that as of yet,  says albert ko, professor of epidemiology and medicine at the yale school of public health. people who go outside to exercise are sometimes shamed on tv and on social media for risky behavior. is it okay to go outside for a walk, run or bike ride  the white house coronavirus guidelines for the 15-day period that started monday advise avoiding  discretionary travel, shopping trips and social visits,  as well as  social gatherings in groups of more than 10 people.  but outdoor exercise is not on the list. so unless local guidelines instruct otherwise, fresh air and outdoor exercise are allowed - though it is important to keep some distance between yourself and others. the coronavirus is thought to spread primarily through close contact between people - within about six feet. the primary mode of transmission is through respiratory droplets. there is better airflow outside than in confined spaces. that air flow outside reduces the risk of one person transmitting the virus to another through droplets in the air, says albert ko, the yale epidemiologist.  so if you are going out and you are hiking or biking or running and you are not within, say, six feet or 10 feet of another person, i would consider that a healthy, safe practice.  ko also points to the significant mental health issues that can be caused or exacerbated when people are cooped up.  my personal feeling is that if people are practicing sound respiratory hygiene, sound hand hygiene, they are distancing themselves physically from others outside, and you are exercising and walking in the park -- i think that is actually a good public health practice. "
"as a disclaimer, this is not an answer, rather a long-form explanation of the difficulties of answering.  the first leg is uncertainty about the danger of the epidemic. economists are not medical experts. for example, one could imagine that there is an amazing breakthrough where a common medicine saves patients. the economic effects of that scenario are very different than the scenarios presented by governments. more realistically, we do not know how strong activity restrictions have to be to control the epidemic.  the next leg of uncertainty is the government response. governments have the capacity to bail out entities  firms, households  that get in trouble. we do not know what they will do.  even if we knew all that, there is uncertainty about the best model that takes all this in. it is very unusual for governments to restrict economic activity in such a broad-based manner, and so there are no standard models.  there is a flood of research.   finally,  conventional  economics does not really spend much time looking into societal collapse scenarios. there are areas of academia that do this, and there is presumably studies in economic history. experts in those subject areas are not normally visiting this website.  "
"do not exercise if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing. stay home and rest, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority.if you are able to go for a walk or bicycle ride always practice physical distancing and wash your hands with water and soap before you leave, when you get to where you are going, and as soon as you get home. if water and soap are not immediately available, use alcohol-based hand rub. if you go to a park or public open space to walk, run or exercise always practice physical distancing and wash your hands with water and soap, before you leave, when you get to where you are going, and as soon as you get home. if water and soap are not immediately available, use alcohol-based hand rub. follow the directions of your local health authority in regards to any restrictions on the number of people with you and/or restrictions on the use of public outdoor play or exercise equipment. if you are not regularly active start slowly and with low intensity activities, like walking and low impact exercises. start with shorter amounts, like 5-10 minutes, and gradually build up to 30 minutes or more continuously over a few weeks. it is better and safer to be active for short periods more frequently than to try and be active for long periods when you are not used to it. choose the right activity so that you reduce the risk of injury and that you enjoy the activity. choose the right intensity according to your health status and fitness level. you should be able to breath comfortably and hold a conversation while you do light- and moderate-intensity physical activity."
"the main way the virus is thought to spread is through respiratory dropletsproduced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, and this is not a concernafter death,  according to thecdc  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html anchor 1584390222777 .but people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died ofcovid-19, the cdc says.there is no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral orvisitation service with the body of someone who died of covid-19, the cdcsays. kissing, washing and shrouding should be avoided before, during andafter the body has been prepared, if possible. but holding the hand or huggingafter the body has been prepared for viewing may pose less of a risk, the cdcsays."
"this is 100  to be a scam. let is see why:   a viewing before completing the transaction through booking.com would not be possible.  lt   this is where you should run screaming and not read anything else. even if the place exists, how would you know it is not a mold infested, badly insulated garbage heap  if they wanted to do a real long term rent through an app they would use airbnb which allows for this and not booking.com which does not. it is a huge red flag they want to use a platform not suited for long term.  i will send you the booking invitation through the booking.com system  lt   once again, airbnb has this but even there only after enquiring after a property, booking.com very simply does not have such a feature. this person is talking nonsense, we will see why. booking.com will automatically provide the tenancy agreement.  lt   the very reason booking.com stops at 30 days is because in a lot of jurisdictions 30 days is where a short term becomes a tenancy and booking.com does not want to mess with tenancy agreements. booking.com most assuredly will not provide a tenancy agreement  i have first booked an apartment with booking.com close to five years ago and there is nothing even remotely close to a tenancy agreement in all those emails, i reviewed a few again. if you do not like the property for any reason, booking will refund your money on the same day.  lt   booking.com does not exactly work like that. as this blog post shows, the host sets the cancellation policy and up until very very recently the scammer was able to siphon the funds off as soon as the reservation becomes 90  non-refundable, otherwise on the guest is check-in date. see for example here. right now, because of the covid-19 situation, they can only get their money one day past check in per this update but i somewhat suspect they are not 100  up-to-date. also, do you want to convince booking.com that the apartment simply does not exist within less than 24 hour before your money is gone  if booking.com does not side with you then your only avenue is to sue them in a dutch court of law.   finally, if i needed to make a grim bet, i would put my money on this being nothing more than bait-and-switch and they do not want to use booking.com: you agree to this, and after some hemming and hawing and probably a few juicy photos they come back complaining about some problems with booking.com listing and ask for a plain vanilla wu wire. by this time you are hopefully hooked enough to go ahead with it, if not, what is there to lose for them  you can even test it by agreeing and see what happens, just do not send money to them...   and if you are wondering how people rent long term in a different country: they might have boots on the ground  company or friend  and if they do not then just do a short term rent much like it would be a vacation and get a place once you are there. easy as pie. i did so when i landed in vancouver. "
"the health minister of france, olivier veran, recently left global health officials puzzled when he  warned that people  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/health/coronavirus-ibuprofen.html  ill with the coronavirus should stay away from painkillers like ibuprofen and aspirin. he said such nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, or nsaids, could aggravate symptoms of the coronavirus, and suggested that people take acetaminophen instead. because the coronavirus is a new pathogen, there is not a lot known on how patients respond to common medications, but other experts pushed back on the french minister is warning.  it is all anecdote, and fake news off the anecdotes,  said dr. garret fitzgerald, chair of the department of pharmacology at the perelman school of medicine at the university of pennsylvania. the world health organization has said that it is aware of no research showing that ibuprofen should not be taken by patients with covid-19, and the f.d.a. said it was investigating the issue further and would provide more information when it becomes available."
"the prime minister has been chairing meetings via videoconference, specifically using zoom  bbc news .  it is being reported this evening  by itv news among others  that tomorrow is covid-19 meeting will be chaired by dominic raab, the first secretary of state. "
"among the more than 4,000 cases in the u.s. as of march 16, only 5  were people aged 0-19 years, according to the cdc. just 2 -3  of cases in that age group had to be hospitalized, and none were in the icu.  this week, however, health officials reported that a 17-year-old teen in new orleans died after contracting the virus. and a 2-month-old in nashville who tested positive for the virus could be the youngest patient in the nation, officials say. in china, at least one two-day-old infant had been infected, according to a who study."
"i do not know but they are likely spraying bleach to kill virus on surfaces. studies show the virus can persist for days on stainless steel etc, but we do not have good data how much of any of this can cause further infection.  it does help to impress on the public the need to keep washing which is the most effective way to be safe apart from complete isolation.  http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/does-disinfecting-surfaces-really-prevent-spread-coronavirus "
"1: remember, a mask should only be used by health workers, care takers, and individuals with respiratory symptoms, such as fever and cough.  2: before touching the mask, clean hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water  3: take the mask and inspect it for tears or holes.  4: orient which side is the top side  where the metal strip is .  5: ensure the proper side of the mask faces outwards  the coloured side .  6: place the mask to your face. pinch the metal strip or stiff edge of the mask so it moulds to the shape of your nose.  7: pull down the mask is bottom so it covers your mouth and your chin.  8: after use, take off the mask  remove the elastic loops from behind the ears while keeping the mask away from your face and clothes, to avoid touching potentially contaminated surfaces of the mask.  9: discard the mask in a closed bin immediately after use.  10: perform hand hygiene after touching or discarding the mask - use alcohol-based hand rub or, if visibly soiled, wash your hands with soap and water."
"cdc recommends that everyone 2 years and older wear a cloth face covering that covers their nose and mouth when they are out in the community. cloth face coverings should not be put on babies or children younger than 2 because of the danger of suffocation. children younger than 2 years of age are listed as an exception as well as anyone who has trouble breathing or is unconscious, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to remove the face covering without assistance. wearing cloth face coverings is a public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of covid-19 in addition to  not instead of  social distancing, frequent hand cleaning ,and other everyday preventive actions. a cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer but may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others. this would be especially important if someone is infected but does not have symptoms. medical face masks and n95 respirators are still reserved for healthcare personnel and other first responders, as recommended by current cdc guidance."
studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air.
"well, based on the 3 institutions i have close contact with, their attempts in the past few weeks hardly represent a shining example of hugely successful online learning  it feels more like the keystone kops   that bit of snark out of the way, effective teaching in the online/mooc/e-channel, etc. is not easy, and making the transition between a face to face course and an effective online course requires a lot of thought and a lot of design a prep, which of course no-one has has time to do this time around. so my snark was not meant as a true criticism, but at the same time, it means that mainstream universities  efforts in the balance of this semester are themselves unlikely to make anyone -- teachers or learners -- say,  hey, that went really well  let is dispense with classroom instruction altogether .  that being said, i do think this will strongly accelerate the shift towards e-learning in the medium- and long-term, and that in 2 ways.   in the long term, this will make e-learning a much more mainstream offering that students and faculty will become more comfortable exploring and integrating into the curriculum. forced immersion brings familiarity and less fear. up to now, in north america at least, we tended to have old-school in-person institutions, a few more e-learning focused disruptor institutions, and a select few dabbling in moocs layered on top of their usual approach. there was a lot of mutual mistrust. that will lessen. and just like a greater degree of teleworking throughout the economy, with the pandora is box on it opened, will persist past current social isolation, so will demand for -- and willingness of faculty to explore -- e-learning. next year, there will be a lot of financially and emotionally wounded students, whose life plan took a pretty big hit. some will be keen and able to return to their university campuses and continue as before. some will not be, and when they get their affairs in order a few years later, in a world that will have lived through months of forced virtual work and socialization, they will probably be keener to explore online offerings than they were previously. and the more they start work somewhere and become mature learners, or the more straitened their financial circumstances become, the more they will seek out good-value-for-money education with schedule and geographic flexibility, and the less they will be keen to return and pay for the conventional on-campus student experience. of course that will not apply to all, but i suspect to enough that it will make a difference at the macro level.  "
"there is no known way to infect yourself with a  safe  dose of sars-cov-2. the eyes are listed as a portal of infection which is why health workers wear eye protection  goggles, face shields  .  once the virus infects human cells it starts to replicate creating more virus. at some stage the immune system will ramp up and detect the virus but this takes time. even if you find a dose of the virus to infect yourself, how are you going to count a few hundred or a few thousand virus particles and make sure you do not exceed the infectious dose  and that may depend also on host factors.    the average number of viral particles needed to establish an infection is known as the infectious dose. we do not know what this is for covid-19 yet, but given how rapidly the disease is spreading, it is likely to be relatively low - in the region of a few hundred or thousand particles, says willem van schaik at the university of birmingham, uk.   read more: http://www.newscientist.com/article/2238819-does-a-high-viral-load-or-infectious-dose-make-covid-19-worse/ ixzz6iuiniq2d "
"according to multiple sources:    italy is 60-million people will only be able to travel for work, medical reasons or emergencies until april 3 2020. all schools and universities, which were closed nationwide last week until march 15 2020, will now not reopen before next month.  reuters    so you are going to need permission and a good reason to do any travelling at all in italy for the next few weeks. you should be aware that you are likely to face quarantine on your return. "
" globalgiving  http://www.globalgiving.org/projects/coronavirus-relief-fund/  is a large global crowdfunding community that connects nonprofits, donors and companies. it has set a goal of reaching  5 million in donations. money received will go toward sending emergency medical workers to communities in need, providing medical supplies to hospitals and helping deliver essentials to families."
"yes they can. the viruses that cause a cold include rhinoviruses  up to 80  , coronaviruses and influenza  together accounting for much of the remaining 20   and a small percentage of adenoviruses. when discussing cross species transfer, influenza is the most important to discuss as it is a fairly common cause of the  common cold .   influenza a has humans, pigs, bird and horses as its host. different influenza strains have different hosts. influenza can recombine if two strains infect the same host  antigenic shift  and also mutate  antigenic drift . with a combination of these influenza can and has numerous times crossed the species barrier which has caused the major flu pandemics as well as swine and avian flu. it is this reservoir that makes these viruses so hard to eradicate. when we are the only host such as in polio virus, it is a lot easier. pigs do not adhere to national flu guidelines.   comparing recovery times, all mammals are roughly similar although due to our slightly more evolved immune system as well as social factors of knowing what to do when we are ill we recovery very slightly earlier. "
"not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-2019. however, those affected should receive care to relieve symptoms. people with serious illness should be hospitalized. most patients recover thanks to supportive care. possible vaccines and some specific drug treatments are under investigation. they are being tested through clinical trials. who is coordinating efforts to develop vaccines and medicines to prevent and treat covid-19. the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue, and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter  3 feet  from people who are coughing or sneezing.  see basic protective measures against the new coronavirus ."
what if someone needs to visit a pharmacy for medicines  all pharmacies across the countries are categorised under the essential list and will continue to function as per their normal working hours.
"it is hard to not be able to see our friends and family in person, especially on special occasions, so sending a gift shows we are thinking of them. there is no evidence of covid-19 being transmitted through food, and thorough cooking will kill the virus. the uk food standards agency website has advice on food safety. if you are not displaying coronavirus symptoms, make sure you wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before you start baking. if you are showing symptoms of the virus - or have been in contact with someone who has - then it is probably not a good idea to prepare food for somebody else. that is because coronavirus spreads through small droplets - packed with the virus - expelled by a sufferer if they cough or sneeze. these can cause an infection if they are breathed in, or if someone touches a surface on which they have landed. while the chance of contracting coronavirus through food delivery is low, it does exist. the tin or box the cake is placed in probably presents a higher risk than the cake itself, so your friend should rinse the packaging when she receives the cake. if you are dropping the cake off yourself, you should maintain social distancing by ensuring you stay 2m  6ft  apart from each other."
"computer simulations have been carried in london, uk, on a proposal to let the virus loose on the population as a whole and isolate those at risk.  but the models showed that there would be a huge death toll  over 2,000,000 for the usa  adopting this approach. younger people survive better with full medical support, but that does not mean they do not get very sick.  at least one 14 year old child has died, and half the icu beds in france are occupied by people in their 40s.   and this strategy would overwhelm the health system.    a new analysis by immunologists at imperial college london and the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine of the impact of the coronavirus in italy suggested that up to 30 percent of patients hospitalized with the virus would require intensive care treatment. those numbers, if repeated in the u.k., would quickly overwhelm britain is state-run national health service.    http://foreignpolicy.com/2020/03/17/britain-uk-coronavirus-response-johnson-drops-go-it-alone/ "
"there is currently no data available on stability of 2019-ncov on surfaces. data from laboratory studies on sars-cov and mers-cov have shown that stability in the environment depends on several factors including relative temperature, humidity, and surface type. who continues to monitor existing evidence around ncov and will update when such evidence is available."
" the short answer is apparently, yes, and better than we thought,  schaffner said.  after china imposed strict quarantine and lockdown measures in hard-hit hubei province, new cases of covid-19 appeared to decline, schaffner explained.  more: what life is like under novel coronavirus quarantine it is too soon to know the full effect of that quarantine, which is essentially an unprecedented public health experiment. and imposing strict quarantine measures on an entire community may not be replicable outside of china.  italy has locked down its entire population of 60 million, a dramatic move to try to tamp down on a rising number of cases and deaths."
"the exact same virus affects different people in different ways. it can make an older person very sick and hardly get a 10-year-old sick at all. researchers do not know why that is yet, but they are working hard to find out."
"   the  stimulus plan  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/us/politics/whats- in-coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html  includes a significant expansion of unemployment benefits that would extend jobless insurance by 13 weeks. the program is aimed to help freelancers, part-time workers, furloughed employees and gig workers, such as uber drivers, as well as full-time employees who have lost their jobs. states have set their own rules for eligibility and benefits, which are generally calculated as a percentage of your income over the past year, up to a certain maximum. some states are more generous than others, but unemployment typically replaces about 45 percent of your lost income. under the plan, eligible workers would get an extra  600 per week on top of their state benefit. one important note: you might not have to lose your job to qualify. if you are quarantined or have been furloughed -- and you are not being paid but expect to return to your job eventually -- you may be able to get unemployment benefits."
"yes, testing positive means that you have the virus, but it does not mean that you will develop symptoms. some people who have the virus do not have any symptoms at all.  at the same time, testing negative does not necessarily mean that you do not have the virus."
"so, in short, the bank did what you asked them to do  close your account .   what do you think they did that might be unlawful  "
"the short answer: we do not know yet. it is not yet clear whether people can be reinfected by this coronavirus or how long immunity might last after infection. immunity after recovery from covid-19 would be a boon in the global fight to rein in the virus. people who have recovered and gained immunity would be especially valuable as health care workers. the spread of the virus would slow if more people had immunity to it. and antibodies from recovered people could help in developing a treatment for the disease. as npr is nell greenfieldboyce has reported, scientists are looking for clues about immunity to and reinfection from other coronaviruses. the severe coronaviruses sars and mers did produce antibodies in those who had the virus. in the case of mers, survivors generated an immune response to the virus that could be detected up to two years later. and the sicker the patient was, the more long lasting their immune response. but in the case of the four seasonal coronaviruses that are a cause of the common cold, they can sicken people over and over again. after infection with one of these viruses, antibodies are produced -- but then the levels slowly decline and people become susceptible again. there are some indications that the new coronavirus, officially known as sars-cov-2, can spur immunity. new not-yet-peer-reviewed research in rhesus macaques found that the new coronavirus does not cause reinfections.  i think there is a very likely scenario where the virus comes through this year, and everyone gets some level of immunity to it, and if it comes back again, we will be protected from it,  matt frieman, a coronavirus researcher at the university of maryland school of medicine in baltimore, told npr.  either completely or if you do get reinfected later, a year from now, then you have much less disease.   that is the hope,  he adds.  but there is no way to know that. "
"yep. if you use the ppp loan for one of the purposes listed above for the eight weeks following the inception of the loan, it is forgiven. in the added guidance given by the sba yesterday, they mention that  it is anticipated that not more than 25  of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.  for the ppp, you will need to apply for forgiveness with your lender that is servicing your loan. similarly, the  10,000 advance  which should be coming to those of you that applied on monday pretty soon  is not required to be repaid, even if you are denied additional funds. it is a little ambiguous to me whether you are required to use the funds to pay the above expenses  it says  may  . currently, i am relying on the interpretation of the us chamber of commerce. we will learn more as additional guidance comes out and the grants start getting disbursed, which will be soon."
"the principle of constitutional law is that in order to arrest you, the officer would need probable cause. certain acts are in themselves violations of the order  being closer to another person that 6 feet, illegal sneezing . walking in public does not per se constitute a violation. in order to briefly stop a person walking on the street  a  terry stop  , the officer needs a reasonable suspicion that the person is in violation of the law. that means there has to be a reason, and a gut feeling does not count. an officer would not  legally  be able to stop every person they see walking down the street / driving, and demand an explanation of where they are going. if a person is just aimlessly wandering down the strees with friends  even if they are sufficiently separated , that could suffice to justify a stop, given the limited legal excuses for being outside your home. "
"if you are living with people who are not in isolation, wear a mask when you are in the same room as them. it is best to sleep in a different room to your partner, avoid spending time in communal areas and use a separate bathroom, if possible. wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds before entering areas used by others and after using the bathroom."
"there is no reason to think that any animals, including shelter pets, in the united states might be a source of covid-19."
"yes, families who receive food stamps are eligible to receive a stimuluscheck  the  2 trillion stimulus plan includes  one-time payments of 1,200  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/03/26/coronavirus-americans-start-getting-stimulus-checks-three-weeks/5078658002/  per adult and 500 per child,  367 billion for small businesses,  500 billion for loans tolarger industries,  100 billion for hospitals and the health care system, and 600 more per week in unemployment benefits for those out of work.here is  how you cancalculate  http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/2020/03/26/find-out-how-much-your-stimulus-check/2917379001/  the amount of stimulus money yourhousehold can expect."
"the answer is a qualified yes, but there is a lot that is not known yet. if people who survived covid-19 were known to be immune to the virus, they could venture back outside, and into the workforce, until a vaccine became available for everyone else. in particular, health care workers who are known to be immune could continue to care for severely ill people. the quickest way to assess immunity to the coronavirus is a test that looks for protective antibodies in the blood of people who have recovered. but first you have to have the test. labs around the world are working on such tests, but none are readily accessible quite yet."
yes. the sba has specifically stated business owners looking for the grant need to apply through the new application that went up on monday.
"lawsuits are only allowed for harms to a particular private individual is health that actually arises from the conduct of the person sued. you can not sue because there was an outbreak in your city, you have to show individualized harm to you.  to prevail you would have to make out a  negligence  claim. the elements of this claim are  1  a duty,  2  that was breached,  3  by someone with injuries,  4  that were caused by the breach of duty.  there are two kinds of duties. one is the general duty to use the care of a reasonable person to prevent foreseeable harm to others  a breach of this duty is called  negligence  . the other is to obey statutes and regulations and ordinances intended to protect people like the person injured from the harm suffered.  if someone does not violate a statute, regulation, or ordinance, then one has to show that it as negligent to carry out the event.  there would also be an affirmative defense that the fault was entirely that of the victim by attending the event knowing of the risk.  i would not rule out negligence liability for event organizers, but it is more likely that they would be sued not for holding the event, but for failure to use reasonable care in how it was conducted  e.g. not having face masks and hand sanitizer on hand . "
"unfortunately, unless you have a good home gym set up, you are not going to be able to carry on with the stronglifts program.  sorry, but that is just the way it is.  now, focusing on the positive, there are a large number of home training options available, depending on what you are willing to invest in and what space you have available.  i like kettlebells, so i own a few of them and can get a good training session in with swings, turkish get-ups, presses, goblet squats and loaded carries.  likewise, bodyweight, you can get a good session in with press ups  since you mentioned you have got bad wrists, you can invest in some push up handles, or can you do push ups on your dumbbells  , pull ups, single leg squat variations, planks and romanian deadlifts using a box full of books  ok, it is not bodyweight, but you get the idea .  being outside in nature is always a good thing, so load up a backpack with some weight and go for a walk  technically called  rucking  . while you are at it, occasionally press the bag overhead, or carry it one side or the other, bear hug it to your chest, just play with the position to stress your muscles.  if you have only been training for a few weeks, chances are that you will still gain strength from any sort of training, provided you do not slack off. no, it will not be stronglifts style training, but stronger is stronger, having a solid core is always a good thing and helps with the powerlifts. basically, improvise  "
"practice everyday preventive actions to help reduce your risk of getting sick and remind everyone in your home to do the same. these actions are especially important for older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions:  avoid close contact with people who are sick. stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care. cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash. wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol. always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects  e.g., tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles . launder items, including washable plush toys, as appropriate and in accordance with the manufacturer is instructions. if possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people is items.  "
"for a single tax filer, the rebate amount reduces by  5 for every  100 of income over  75,000. so a single person with no children who had adjusted gross income of  85,000 in 2019, and has already filed a 2019 tax return, would receive  700.    keep in mind that phase-out of the credit is based on people is adjusted gross income, which does not include income put into pre-tax accounts such as traditional 401 k s. as a result, someone with an annual salary of  85,000 and no other income could have adjusted gross income of less than  85,000."
"the legislation would send direct payments of  1,200 to millions of americans, including those earning up to  75,000, and an additional  500 per child. it expands jobless aid, providing an additional 13 weeks and a four-month enhancement of benefits, and extends the payments for the first time to freelancers and gig workers. the measure would also offer  377 billion in federally guaranteed loans to small businesses and establish a  500 billion government lending program for distressed companies reeling from the impact of the crisis, including allowing the administration the ability to take equity stakes in airlines that received aid to help compensate taxpayers. it would also send  100 billion to hospitals on the front lines of the pandemic."
"ofcom is powers with regard to wireless telegraphy  i.e. radio  and television broadcasts and broadcasters are provided for by the broadcasting acts and the communications act 2003.  ofcom can issue a warning, direction or fine, suspend or restrict the broadcaster is activities, revoke the broadcaster is licence or bring criminal proceedings.   directions may include  broadcast an apology / correction / statement .  generally the maximum fine for commercial radio is ps250,000 or 5  the broadcaster is  qualifying revenue , whichever is the greater. there is a settlement process providing for discounts.  revocation of the licence would make it unlawful for the broadcaster to broadcast in the uk.  ofcom is current penalty guidelines at the time of writing can be found in this pdf and its procedures for investigating alleged breaches of content standards can be found in this pdf. they are changed from time to time - both kinds of documents can be downloaded via ofcom is policies and guidelines page.  ofcom purports to want to avoid disproportionately infringing on freedom of expression, and to discourage bad behaviour and encourage good behaviour. hence the outcome of this case, instead of something worse.  for the case to which you refer, you can read ofcom is reasoning in this pdf found via the bulletins section of ofcom is website. "
"yes. the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes covid-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low."
"the coronavirus relief bill is not yet law, and the irs has yet to provide information about how it plans to implement the provision about the rebates. on the irs is coronavirus landing page, the agency is telling people not to call it right now and to check back for updates at a later point.  tax experts are hoping that the irs issues guidance to clarify issues about eligibility when taxpayers  situations differ in 2018, 2019 and 2020, as well as guidance about which nonfilers now need to submit a tax return in order to receive a payment."
"yes, several countries are planning to implement this approach, and in some cases, already have. on march 12th, the european centre for disease prevention and control  ecdc , an eu agency, updated its rapid risk assessment on the covid-19 pandemic, in which it advises states to     designate treatment facilities both for mild and for severe covid-19 cases with critical care capabilities  e.g. ecmo . this  implies activation of hospital plans to the highest level to be able to cancel elective diagnostic and operative procedures and  re-assign human resources, creating temporary treatment facilities for the mild cases or advising self-isolation until  symptoms improve or worsen.   the who also released guidance to this effect on march 17th, reiterating that     who recommends that all laboratory confirmed cases be isolated and  cared for in a health care facility.     ...     if all mild cases cannot be isolated in health facilities, then those  with mild illness and no risk factors may need to be isolated in  non-traditional facilities, such as repurposed hotels, stadiums or  gymnasiums where they can remain until their symptoms resolve and  laboratory tests for covid-19 virus are negative.   in madrid, this advice was implemented with a temporary hospital set up in the ifema conference centre. the first patients arrived at the facility on march 21st, and initially had a capacity for 200 patients with amild  cases of covid-19. capacity will eventually be extended to 1300 beds, with a small number of icu units in case these mild cases progress to severe cases.  hotel via castellana has also been converted  article in spanish  to a temporary hospital for mild cases, with six of the hospital is floors converted to facilities for the lightly ill, and a seventh converted to house medical staff.  in south korea, this strategy has also been used - the wsj reports that in order to solve the issue of hospital overcrowding:    south korea divided confirmed patients into four categories. only the  sickest and elderly went to hospitals. the young and asymptomatic went  to dormitories, which were lent by samsung life insurance co., lg  display co. and others, equipped with little more than beds, wi-fi and  the occasional television.    the decision ensured that low-risk individuals remained quarantined  under government watch. thousands of south korea is virus patients have  ridden out the past several weeks living in buildings where companies  typically put up workers for off-site, multiday training.   in the phillipines,  emergency quarantine facilities   eqfs  are being planned, temporary centres designed for  patients who are waiting for test results or have mild symptoms but are not in dire straits -- a way to keep potentially infected people separate from their communities.   many countries, however, have chosen not to adopt this strategy, instead advising those with mild to moderate symptoms to self-isolate, prioritising hospital beds, including field hospital beds, for those most at risk or with the worst symptoms. in singapore, the country had enough hospital capacity to deal with all patients, including those with mild symptoms, due in part to the amount of testing and contact tracing which was used to isolate and quarantine cases. "
"as npr has previously reported, some research has shown that cotton t-shirt material and tea towels might help block respiratory droplets emitting from sick people -- though it is not clear how much protection they provide. another study, of health care workers in vietnam, found that use of cloth masks resulted in greater infection than either those wearing surgical masks or a control group, some of whom also wore surgical masks. we do not yet know exactly how effective homemade masks are, but griffin thinks they are a good idea -- he has even taken to wearing one over his n95 respirator."
"in hindsight it is clear that many governments should have taken the risk of a covid19 pandemic much more seriously, but it is not that easy to anticipate the reach and intensity of the epidemic before it happens. there have been other serious threats before for which the containment strategy proved sufficient, and if a government allocates resources  for instance massive purchases of masks and ventilators  which end up wasted they are going to be criticized as well.   this article in the guardian argues that most european countries were not as well prepared as some asian countries because:   there was no recent experience of a serious epidemic in the country, causing leaders to subconsciously underestimate the seriousness of the threat. there is a potential political cost for a government if they invest resources by precaution and the risk does not materialize:     the challenge faced by government is whether and when to act on a health threat. if you act swiftly and the outbreak is not as bad as  feared, then government gets criticised for overreacting. if you  adopt a wait-and-see approach and move too slowly, then government  gets criticised for underreacting,  says steve taylor, professor at  the university of british columbia and author of the psychology of  pandemics.   as an example, during the 2009 h1n1 flu pandemic roselyne bachelot was minister of health in the french government. she purchased 94 million vaccines, but only a small proportion turned out to be actually used. as a result she was widely criticized for wasting public money. i assume that there are other examples of this kind, where a politician loses some political points because they made a safe but costly decision.   it seems that when an epidemic threat presents itself a government must make a call between:   taking the threat seriously and therefore mobilizing important resources for an overall unlikely epidemic crisis, with a high risk to appear as overreacting and wasting public money. taking minimal conservative measures, which is unlikely to be sufficient if the crisis materializes. however this will likely appear as the  normal  choice to make, since nobody could objectively have anticipated the intensity of the crisis.   note: this answer is made of recycled material from a closed question of mine. "
"   cdc recommends handwashing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or, using alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol when soap and water are not available. these actions are part of everyday preventive actions individuals can take to slow the spread of respiratory diseases like covid-19.  when washing hands, you can use plain soap or antibacterial soap. plain soap is as effective as antibacterial soap at removing germs. if soap and water are not readily available, you can use an fda-approved alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol. you can tell if the sanitizer contains at least 60  alcohol by looking at the product label.  cdc does not encourage the production and use of homemade hand sanitizer products because of concerns over the correct use of the ingredientsexternal iconexternal icon and the need to work under sterile conditions to make the product. local industries that are looking into producing hand sanitizer to fill in for commercial shortages can refer to the world health organization guidancepdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon. organizations should revert to the use of commercially produced, fda-approved product once such supplies again become available.  to be effective against killing some types of germs, hand sanitizers need to have a strength of at least 60  alcohol and be used when hands are not visibly dirty or greasy. do not rely on  do it yourself  or  diy  recipes based solely on essential oils or formulated without correct compounding practices. do not use hand sanitizer to disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects. see cdc is information for cleaning and sanitizing your home.  see faqs about hand hygiene for healthcare personnel responding to covid-2019.   "
"  update: the article has now been withdrawn with the following note:    this paper has been withdrawn by its authors. they intend to revise it  in response to comments received from the research community on their  technical approach and their interpretation of the results. if you  have any questions, please contact the corresponding author.     this is very odd, and will require a rigorous investigation, but my initial reaction is one of scepticism. considering just the 1st insert, the insert sequence is gtngtkr, short at just 7 amino acids. a simple blastp vs nr did not find perfect matches to hiv sequences, but did reveal 100  identity across the full sequence length to  50 other short protein sequences, which could be spurious  chance  hits of course. many of the top 100 hits are against eukaryotic sequences, for example one is against pristionchus pacificus, a type of nematode worm  see alignment below . someone needs to do a proper peer review of this preprint before any conclusions are drawn from it.   gt tank-1  pristionchus pacificus  sequence id: pdm74036.1 length: 2481  range 1: 1474 to 1480  score:24.0 bits 49 , expect:2477,  method:,  identities:7/7 100  , positives:7/7 100  , gaps:0/7 0    query 1 gtngtkr 7  gtngtkr sbjct 1474 gtngtkr 1480     update 1: things are moving fast. there are now 10 comments under the preprint, all of them critical of the idea that these inserts are meaningfully similar to hiv-1 sequences for the reason i outlined above  i.e. short sequences with many hits against organisms from across the tree of life  and additional points, such as small insertions being quite normal evolution for rna viruses. there are also similar critiques on twitter and biorxiv has added the following disclaimer header to their website:    biorxiv is receiving many new papers on coronavirus 2019-ncov. a  reminder: these are preliminary reports that have not been  peer-reviewed. they should not be regarded as conclusive, guide  clinical practice/health-related behavior, or be reported in news  media as established information.   i have never seen such rapid  and unanimous  post-publication peer review before. it is therefore already  just 1 day after publication  fairly clear that at least some claims in this study are completely false and there is no good evidence to support the claim that the 2019-ncov have acquired sequences from hiv or evidence to suggest the virus is engineered. "
" it takes anything up to six weeks to recover from this disease,  said dr. michael ryan of the world health organization.    people who suffer very severe illness can take months to recover from the illness.   recovery is often marked by a patient no longer showing symptoms and having two consecutive negative tests at least one day apart, ryan said. but there is no known cure for the novel coronavirus."
"the infection period for the virus will vary from person to person. mild symptoms in an otherwise healthy individual may resolve over just a few days. similar to influenza, for an individual with other ongoing health issues, such as a respiratory condition, recovery may take weeks and in severe cases could be potentially fatal."
"yes  in a recent webinar, alex contreras, director of preparedness, communication   coordination at the office of disaster assistance at the sba said that they will try to be flexible and that even a bankruptcy does not necessarily disqualify you. additionally, there are no application, guarantee or prepayment fees, so there is no harm in applying. even if you do not qualify for additional funds, you can still get the grant."
"coronavirus is thought to be spread by small drops of moisture we release when we sneeze or cough.  the moisture has to get into your body to make you sick, which means you can catch coronavirus if those droplets get into your eyes, nose or mouth."
"the queen is saying that the pride of the british people, is not merely pride over past behavior, but is pride in themselves as they are now and as they move forward. she is not denying that the british should be proud of their past  she is suggesting that their past is not what defines their pride. their pride is defined by who they are. "
"signing statements do not have the force of law. most often signing statements are used to signify how the president will interpret and enforce the law    for example, in president obama is signing statement for the  national defense authorization act , he explained a few reasons why he chose to sign the bill  it authorizes funding for important national defense programs, etc. , then went on to point out a few sections of the bill that he viewed as unconstitutional. he then stated,  my administration will interpret them  some of the disputed sections  to avoid the constitutional conflict.    in other words, signing statements are often just a different way to enact an executive order.  going back to this bill, the relevant portion would be    i do not understand, and my administration will not treat, this provision as permitting the sigpr to issue reports to the congress without the presidential supervision required by the take care clause, article ii, section 3.   this does not nullify the law, it simply says the sigpr should not report to congress without reporting to the president first. this does provide trump with a preview of any report and a potential to influence the sigpr, but there is no easy way to stop this since the sigpr is part of the executive branch. nowhere is trump stating that the sigpr is not to report to congress at all  which would be a direct violation of the law . "
"coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19."
"no, the presence of the coronavirus would not turn a flu test positive.however, it is possible to have both the coronavirus and the flu at the sametime. in that case, the flu test would be positive.the opposite is also true: presence of the flu would not result in a positivecoronavirus test. it is important to note that, even if someone tests negativefor the coronavirus, they still may be infected with the coronavirus."
"those who are infected with covid-19 may have few to no symptoms, according to the public health agency of canada  phac . if symptoms are present, they can easily be mistaken for a common cold or the flu because of their similarities.  according to the health agency, the main symptoms of covid-19 are fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia in both lungs. in severe cases, the illness can even result in death.  the world health organization lists additional symptoms that have been documented in some covid-19 patients, including tiredness, aches and pains, sore throat, diarrhea, nausea and runny nose.  gorfinkel said clinicians can not distinguish between the illnesses based on symptoms alone. she said they can all present the same way, which is why the patient is travel history or history of exposure to the virus is so important in determining whether someone might have covid-19.   we do not have the facilities or the tests to test absolutely everybody, so that history of travel if you are basically otherwise well, that is a critical part of it,  she explained."
"the virus that causes covid-19 is spreading from person-to-person. people are thought to be most contagious when they are symptomatic  the sickest . that is why cdc recommends that these patients be isolated either in the hospital or at home  depending on how sick they are  until they are better and no longer pose a risk of infecting others. more recently the virus has also been detected in asymptomatic persons. how long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release someone from isolation is made using a test-based or non-test-based strategy  i.e. time since illness started and time since recovery  in consultation with state and local public health officials. the decision involves considering the specifics of each situation, including disease severity, illness signs and symptoms, and the results of laboratory testing for that patient. learn more about cdc is guidance on when to release someone from isolation and discharge hospitalized patients with covid-19. for information on when someone who has been sick with covid-19 is able to stop home isolation see interim guidance for discontinuation of in-home isolation for patients with covid-19. someone who has been released from isolation is not considered to pose a risk of infection to others."
"can a person cured of covid-19, get infected again  this is a viral infection. like swine flu or h1n1, if you are exposed to it, you can get infected again. but once you get the infection, the human system develops antibodies to fight the virus which is why in case you contract the infection again it is likely to be less severe than before. so, if after getting cured for covid-19, you end up getting infected again, you might have milder symptoms."
"  is there any international travel rule which prohibits a country from refusing entry to its own citizens    yes.    the right of return is a principle in international law which guarantees everyone is right of voluntary return to or re-enter their country of origin or of citizenship.     the right is formulated in several modern treaties and conventions, most notably in the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, the 1966 international covenant on civil and political rights and the 1948 fourth geneva convention. the geneva conventions, it has been argued, have passed into customary international law and that the right of return is binding on non-signatories to the conventions     the 1948 universal declaration of human rights says    article 13.     1  everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.   2  everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.  "
" i am a programmer...   international airline ticketing systems are huge, complex systems requiring interaction with the public, the staff, and other huge complex ticketing systems. ensuring an accurate and timely flow of information through such a structure is no mean feat.  these systems were built for an environment where most flights departed on or fairly close to schedued time. in a matter of weeks the world has gone from that to an environment where most flights are now cancelled.  your isimple  if   may not be simple at all, but assuming the change was to be made, the process of approval, development, testing, staging and deployment could easily take weeks. there simply has not been time for such development to take place, even assuming that the developers consider that it is worthwhile.  i suggest that with the chaos currently reigning in the air travel industry, receiving an email with directions to the airport has been considered unimportant.   airlines have bigger fish to fry. "
"someone who entered on the visa waiver program cannot apply for extension of status  i.e. extend their stay on vwp  or change of status  i.e. change to another nonimmigrant status, e.g. b2 visitor . however, there is something called  satisfactory departure  which can be granted to vwp visitors who cannot leave within their 90 days of admission due to an emergency like hospitalization or natural disaster in the us, to allow them to stay for an additional period of at most 30 days. i am not sure whether a fear of returning to a country with some disease transmission will qualify.  the us has also sometimes granted temporary protected status  tps  for years to people in the us who are nationals of developing countries that have suffered a major disaster with long-term effect on the country is infrastructure like a major earthquake, civil war, or ebola outbreak, etc. however, i highly doubt that they would do that for covid-19, as it is a short-term problem that does not significantly damage the country is infrastructure, and has mostly been in relatively developed countries. also, republicans have been wary of granting tps. "
"coronavirus is not just infecting young people. it is killing young, healthy people as well.   we have reported many stories about young people getting severely sick with or dying from coronavirus.   dimitri mitchell, 18, admits he had a  false sense of security.  but he was later hospitalized with coronavirus and now wants everyone to take it seriously.    i just want to make sure everybody knows that no matter what their age is, it can seriously affect them. and it can seriously mess them up, like it messed me up,  mitchell said.   he started feeling sick on st. patrick is day, with just a small cough.  i thought at first it was just a normal cold. and then it started progressively getting worse,  he said.    four days in, the really bad symptoms started coming along. i started having really bad outbreaks, like sweating, and my eyes were really watery. i was getting warmer and warmer, and i was super fatigued. ... i would start experiencing the worst headaches i have ever felt in my life. they were absolutely horrible.   eventually, the teen had to be hospitalized. his mother said she worried he might  fall asleep and never wake up.    mitchell is now recovering, but still has a cough almost a month later.    i just hope everybody is responsible, because it is nothing to joke about,  he said.  it is a real problem, and i want everybody to make sure they are following social distancing guidelines and the group limits. and just listen to all the rules and precautions and stay up to date with the news and make sure they are informed. "
"from a political psychology standpoint...  the people in the photo are the members of the president is cabinet  or their staff . that means they are all either direct reports and/or political subordinates of the president. they all serve at the pleasure of the president. therefore, there is a certain element of political psychology at play.  specifically, they all must uphold the appearance being a loyal member of the president is team above all. therefore, they must show all the outward signs of respect and being a good listener. visually, this includes focusing their attention on him while he is speaking and maintaining respectful body language. otherwise, they undermine the president is leadership and their respective security and effectiveness in their cabinet or staff position.  "
"if depends quite a bit what you mean by  plans other than quarantine . there are of course efforts to test anti-virals and develop a vaccine. but the amount antivirals available might not suffice in the short run, even if they prove  safe and  effective.  generally speaking however    given the lack of testing in europe and the us, the only way to keep the sick and healthy apart is to keep everyone apart. and that produces a recession.   and the alternative for that would be to test everyone. it is been done at small scale  you will be amused where  in italy, in the very first region hit, i.e. in the town of vo. but the trouble is that testing capacity does not quite scale to the  test everyone in the country  presently... except maybe in iceland, the only country i know of that that is doing random testing on a serious scale  relative to the country is size   but it is worth noting that there is convergence between random testing and the chunk of the population that gets tested in iceland:    iceland has tested a far greater proportion of its population than anywhere else on earth, including south korea -- another country touted for its effective response to the pandemic.    but what makes iceland unique is that test samples are not only taken from  high risk  individuals who have exhibited symptoms, came into contact with known carriers, or returned from countries such as china and italy, they are also offered to thousands of ordinary members of its general population, who are nonsymptomatic.   on should not discount the level of quarantines imposed in iceland either though:    across this remote and rugged island nation of a little more than 364,000, as of friday morning there were almost 10,000 men, women and children -- equivalent to 9 million americans -- under this form of state-enforced lock and key.   so it is more like  more of everything  being done over there rather than  alternative plans .    if by plans you mean plans to relax the lockdowns at some point, every country is probably thinking/considering when they can do that. economists have been spurred into providing answers to hard-choice questions that need to balance economic damage/recession with the lives saved  in the short run . see e.g.    managing economic lockdowns in an epidemic , or in more depth  the macroeconomics of epidemics   eichenbaum et al.   also covered in  the latter half of a  nyt article.   alas the experience of hong kong last week shows that lockdowns may  need to  return in some cases/areas...    i somehow missed the  odd man out , in this case, bolsonaro:    in a televised address last week, he repeated a now well-worn phrase.  it is just a little flu or the sniffles,  he said, blaming the media once again for the hysteria and panic over covid-19.    a few days later, he clearly demonstrated his prioritisation of the economy over isolation measures favoured by the rest of the world.     people are going to die, i am sorry,  he said.  but we can not stop a car factory because there are traffic accidents.      jair bolsonaro is alone right now,  says brian winter, editor-in-chief of the publication americas quarterly.  no other major world leader is denying the severity of this to the extent  ...     a few days ago, a video was shared by jair bolsonaro is son, flavio - a politician himself.    the video is message, which claimed to come from the brazilian government, was that  brazil can not stop   in portuguese,  obrasilnaopodeparar . people need to keep working to keep the country safe and the economy growing.    so much so, in fact, that a federal judge on saturday banned the government from campaigning against isolation measures. government posts on social media using the hashtag were hastily removed.     he is clearly laying the foundation of being able to say six months to a year from now that he did not agree with tough distancing measures, with the lockdown,  says oliver stuenkel, associate professor of international relations at the getulio vargas foundation in sao paulo.   that kind of internal power struggle has happened to some extent in pakistan too, although the military apparently gained the upper hand and managed to impose some level of lockdowns despite opposition from some politicians and clerics. and khan  like bolsonaro  also seems to hedge his bets:    prime minister imran khan, however, has appeared out of step with local provincial governments. he had previously said a  lockdown  would not be sustainable in pakistan, as it would cause too much harm to those on low incomes.    after provincial governments went ahead and introduced measures tantamount to a  lockdown  anyway, mr khan attempted to explain he only opposed what he described as a  curfew,  while also outlining some measures to protect the poorest in society, who are dependent on daily wages to feed their families. unlike other muslim countries, his government has not ordered an end to congregational prayers on fridays.  "
"you should not. but if skype, facetime or another app is an option, you can make a virtual visit. and there is always the old-fashioned telephone call, too. the virus is especially bad for older people like your grandma and grandpa, which means it is even more important for them to  stay away from  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/parenting/grandparents-visit-safety- coronavirus.html  other people. it can be hard, but this keeps them healthier."
"coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as middle east respiratory syndrome  mers  and severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars . the most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease covid-19."
"a reasonable suspicion for a terry stop has to be based on  specific and articulable facts , and not based just on a hunch. a mere  feeling  that a person may be traveling unnecessarily would not legitimize a stop, but some concrete evidence could. for example, 8 teenagers in a car repeated driving a loop experientially looks like cruising, which is not in the category of necessary travel. 8 70 year olds doing the same is probably about as out of the ordinary, even if you can rationalize it as confused elders. "
"  normally she would enter on a 90 days tourist visa, as we do not yet have a long term family reunification visa.   your wife will never get a long-term family reunification visa because such visas are not issued to beneficiaries of the free movement directive.  as a beneficiary from a so-called  annex ii  country  that is, a country whose citizens do not need a visa for short visits , your wife is supposed to enter without a visa and then apply for a residence card after entering germany.  the trick, of course, is to find specific information about how the travel ban is being applied to non-eu citizens who enjoy freedom of movement through a family relationship but who do not yet reside in germany. this may be difficult as the number of such cases is probably small and the possibility may not have been considered by the people writing the policies.  the best i have been able to find so far is at http://www.germany.info/us-en/coronavirus/2317268  emphasis added :    eu-citzens and citizens of great brtain, iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland and their family members will be allowed to transit through germany to reach their home countries.   this suggests that beneficiaries of the free movement directive are included among those who may enter germany. your wife might want to say that germany is her place of residence  which is arguably true  but that she has not yet lived there long enough to get a residence card  which is certainly true . alternatively, she should call the german authorities and ask them what to tell the airline. to that end, see how to contact border authorities in eu/schengen countries  on this site.  regarding the documents, you might try asking the airline if they will pass them to her when she gets off the plane. my wife was in a similar situation recently, and that was the solution.  part of this process was that the airline employee in the destination airport made a note in the airline is system that the documents were sufficient. this was necessary for her to be able to board the plane without having the documents with her. this may also prove necessary in your wife is case. "
"novel coronavirus can cause symptoms that range from mild to severe, including cough, fever and shortness of breath. since the symptoms are similar to those of pneumonia, influenza and the common cold, only a diagnostic test can confirm whether an individual has coronavirus."
"we know that early ct scan of patients, even asymptomatic ones, show ground glass opacities and histology of resected lung segments in asymptomatic patients taken for lung cancer resection show alveloli filling with proteinaceous material. patchy changes progress with time and if it were haematogenous spread then we would expect military like spread through the lung which is not what is being described.  the disease is spread by droplets full of virus, and it is likely that the patient in coughing is spreading the virus to other parts of the lung.  but this is speculative as the disease progression has not yet been fully characterised.  pulmonary pathology of early-phase 2019 novel coronavirus  covid-19  pneumonia in two patients with lung cancer http://www.jto.org/article/s1556-0864 20 30132-5/pdf  temporal changes of ct findings in 90 patients with covid-19 pneumonia: a longitudinal study http://pubs.rsna.org/doi/10.1148/radiol.2020200843 "
"no. for patients who have mild illness, e.g., low-grade fever, cough, malaise, rhinorrhoea, sore throat without any warning signs, such as shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing, increased respiratory  i.e. sputum or haemoptysis , gastro-intestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea and without changes in mental status, hospitalization may not be required unless there is concern for rapid clinical deterioration. all patients discharged home should be instructed to return to hospital if they develop any worsening of illness. for more information on admission criteria, please click here.for more information on caring for mildly symptomatic 2019-ncov patients at home, please click here."
"first, this has never really happened in the united states. in extreme emergencies and national disasters, elections have been held a few days late, but never suspended  unlike, for example, the united kingdom, that suspended elections during world war ii . elections were also not canceled during the civil war, or as a result of the war of 1812  during which the u.s. capitol was burned to the ground by foreign military forces .  for example, elections were not prevented from being conducted by the spanish flu of 1918 which was in all respects deadlier and more contagious than the coronavirus, despite the fact that the technology available for a response in 1918 was less advanced.  realistically, you would need a disease that is catastrophic on the scale of the black plague in medieval europe  that killed a third to a half of the population in many places , and not merely something like the coronavirus  with a 2  mortality rate , to take out the electoral process in the u.s.  a situation like that would involve the collapse of the entire regime and government, and would send us into uncharted waters.  second, election laws can be changed quite quickly in an emergency. one could, for example, shift as colorado has, to a system of near complete all mail in ballots, to reduce the amount of in person interactions that were needed.  the u.s. constitution does not provide the option of not conducting an election. in the absence of an election, elected offices become vacant and the succession provisions of the law which usually kick in when there is a death during someone is term of office would kick in. u.s. senate vacancies can be filled in most states by governors on a temporary basis. u.s. house seats that go vacant must be filled in vacancy elections. there is a line of succession to the presidency defined by law involving a few key congressional leaders and the cabinet. "
"it is hypothesized that exposure to and recovery from sars-cov-2  as with other coronaviruses in humans  would generally result in short-term immunity to this strain, but we do not yet have data on this:    however, according to dr stephen gluckman, an infectious diseases physician at penn medicine and the medical director of penn global medicine, who spoke to the outlet, it seems likely that having the disease once results in immunity in most individuals - as is seen with other coronaviruses.      coronaviruses are not new, they have been around for a long, long time and many species - not just humans - get them,  he explained.  so we know a fair amount about coronaviruses in general. for the most part, the feeling is once you have had a specific coronavirus, you are immune. we do not have enough data to say that with this coronavirus, but it is likely.     this means that people who initially recovered are more likely to relapse rather than get reinfected with the virus.     according to one study, people with mild infections can test positive for the virus by throat swabs  for days and even weeks after their illness .    but, that does not mean it is not possible to contract the disease again, especially in those who are immunocompromised.      the immune response to covid-19 is not yet understood,  the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  explains.  patients with mers-cov infection are unlikely to be reinfected shortly after they recover, but it is not yet known whether similar immune protection will be observed for patients with covid-19.     coronavirus: can you get covid-19 twice or does it cause immunity    it is also hypothesized  in humans  that previous exposure to coronaviruses may enable immunity to certain other highly related strains:    these data indicate that challenge immunity to coronaviruses is strong, but highly virus strain-specific.    virus strain specificity of challenge immunity to coronavirus., archives of virology  1989    but these are all examples of adaptive immunity - not innate. "
"first of all, cold and flu viruses are not isimple viruses , and they are not harmless. they kill tens to hundreds of thousands of people every year.   secondly, this would depend highly on the risk group that the virus falls in. the nih sets strict guidelines on who can handle infectious agents. unfortunately, i can almost guarantee you that no one is going to give you even risk group 1 plant viruses, and they are certainly are not going to give you cold or flu viruses. risk groups range from 1 to 4. to handle risk group 2 viruses, for example, you are expected to do so in a bsl-2 or higher laboratory, and anyone maintaining stocks of virus is going to do a hefty check of you and your  facilities  before shipping you anything.  furthermore, even if you did obtain the virus, you would need to store it or maintain stocks of the virus in tissue culture. its not like you can just get an eppendorf tube of virus in saline and expect it to survive in your refrigerator at home, and its not like companies are shipping virus willy-nilly to anyone.  that being said, and at the expense of sounding self-righteous, there is really no reason for you to obtain virus particles. you should start by getting a book on virology and reading it. there is plenty of learning material both visual and written out there, and all i will say is if you do not already know how to culture virus or where to obtain it, you shouldnt be doing so, and no one is going to give it to you.  cdc biosafety in microbiological and biomedical laboratories: http://www.cdc.gov/biosafety/publications/bmbl5/bmbl.pdf  who laboratory biosafety manual: http://www.who.int/csr/resources/publications/biosafety/en/biosafety7.pdf  nih guidelines recombinant nucleic acids: http://osp.od.nih.gov/sites/defaul/files/nih guidelines.html  i think its great that you are interested, and it sounds like you are interested in histopathological changes caused by virus, so i have included some nice histo pictures below   syncytia  herpes simplex virus type 1    clearer example of syncytia    characteristic owl-eye  cytomegalovirus      distemper virus inclusion body     coronavirus particles with  crown  of surface glycoproteins   budding hiv virus particles from the plasma membrane   bacteriophage t4 escape by lysis   papillomavirus   rous-sarcoma virus    tobacco mosaic virus "
"that is not a good idea. even if you are retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. but you may want to think about having enough cash  to cover basic needs  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-advice.html  if you are retired. one financial planner recommended that retirees set aside enough cash for a year is worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years."
"does drinking alcohol kill coronavirus  alcohol is no solution. if you consume a lot of alcohol, it can make you drowsy and can compromise your immunity. experts say that this might make you aspirate and that will make you susceptible to viruses."
"probably not. you should not touch the slides or swings  the virus can live on them, whether they are plastic or metal , and you would have to stay about six feet away from other kids. maybe go to a field and try a game of catch with one of your parents."
"sometimes you might not be able to wash your hands with soap and water when you want to, for example while out and about, or while using public transport. professor devi sridhar told newsround:  hand gels are a fantastic way to clean your hands but they are not as good as soap and water.  nhs advice says people should use hand sanitiser gel if soap and water are not available."
"the coronavirus is a new phenomenon, which means scientists are only now beginning to research possible treatments or vaccines. no treatments have been approved by the food and drug administration, though there is a drug being tested on a patient who was repatriated from the diamond princess cruise ship. that drug, remdesivir, was first developed as a potential treatment for mers and sars in animals and for ebola in humans. the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases  niaid  is working on a study to test whether the drug would be a suitable treatment for this coronavirus. but until a treatment is developed, someone with a severe case of the virus will be treated with supportive care -- in extreme cases, with intubation tubes and breathing machines. the real silver bullet for any epidemic or pandemic is a vaccine -- and that is going to take a while. some in the trump administration have promised a vaccine within the space of a few months, but that is extremely unlikely. instead, the top expert in the federal government, niaid director anthony fauci, has said he hopes to have a vaccine developed in the next 12 to 18 months, a relatively fast timeline by scientific standards."
"the most common symptoms reported are cough, fever, and shortness of breath. for some, these symptoms lead to respiratory distress and pneumonia. other symptoms reported by those who have been infected are severe aches and pains, chills and a temporary loss of smell  and taste . some people who contract covid-19 experience no symptoms at all."
"before you talk to your children, it is important to  understand your own anxiety and keep it in check.  http://parenting.nytimes.com/childrens- health/coronavirus-kids-talk  if your child is worried about the coronavirus, listen to him or her, rather than respond with comments like,  it will be fine.  dismissive reactions can make children feel like they are not being heard, said abi gewirtz, a clinical psychologist and professor at the university of minnesota. emphasize the importance of washing hands after using the bathroom and before or after meals. children  and adults  should sing   happy birthday    http://www.cdc.gov/handwashing/when-how-handwashing.html twice to make sure they have been washing their hands for at least 20 seconds. you should also frame school cancellation as positive -- more time to have more fun at home  -- and encourage your children to get exercise."
"yes.   research indicates a person with the flu infects about 1.28 other people, on average, cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said.  but with the novel coronavirus, he said,  it is likely between 2 and 3  other people."
"yes. i had a similar experience where my agency restricted travel and did not allow me to present. in my case, i listed that the presentation was delivered by someone else who could attend.  matching the style of your cv, i would write something like:    academic, f. my cool title. awesome conference. city, state. march 2020. invited oral presentation. unable to deliver, meeting canceled due to covid-19 outbreak.   based upon personal experience, i will now be adding a similar entry to my own cv. also, based upon some of the comments, here is why i would list an invited talk even if the talk was not delivered: the invitation is an honor in itself because it shows people recognize you, at some level, as an expert on a topic. thus, the invitation has value besides simply delivering the actual talk.  "
"i think the following quoted article mostly answers my question.  the current, sometimes draconian, measures are not being taken to prevent the spread of covid-19, only to reduce the rate at which it spreads.  a system that can handle a hundred new patients each week for many months, typically can not handle hundreds of new patients each day for a few weeks.  in either case, the same number of people get infected.  in one case the seriously ill can be properly treated, in the other case almost no one can be properly treated.  coronavirus disease  covid-19  - our world in data contains this information:     flattening the curve     this is why early counter measures are important in an epidemic. their  intention is to lower the rate of infection so that the epidemic is  spread out over time and the peak demand for the health care system is  lower.    while the total number who get infected might not change, the  containment measures intend to avoid an outbreak trajectory in which a  large number of people get sick at the same time. this is what the  visualization shows.    this is the reason that limiting the magnitude of peak incidence of an  outbreak is important - health systems can care for more patients when  the number of cases is spread out over a long period and it is not  peaking in a very short period.    a worst-case scenario for a pandemic of covid-19 is that the number of  patients at one point in time is so large that health systems would  fail to provide the required care for some of them    "
"it is good to aim high. it is also good to have broad target. if you apply to only a few schools with very similar profiles then being rejected by one will probably have a similar outcome at the others. so, i recommend a range of schools if you really want a degree and not just bragging rights about a top 50 school.   but, about your gpa. it is not a plus, of course, but most  not all  people who evaluate your application will weight the more recent work as more important than the earlier work. therefore, if your recent work is good and you have letters that attest to the quality of your work and your dedication, then the older numbers will be discounted by most.   but, the competition is still very strong and the slots are few. if someone has to make a choice between two candidates, the choice has to be made and lower priority things may bear some weight.   however, the only way to know whether you have a problem is to actually make application to some places and then evaluate the feedback. there are some questions, like this one, that can only be answered by actually trying. but, you will be more likely to get accepted somewhere if you do not target too narrowly.  "
"the process and locations for testing vary from place to place. contact your state, local, tribal, or territorial department for more information, or reach out to a medical provider. state and local public health departments have received tests from cdc while medical providers are getting tests developed by commercial manufacturers. while supplies of these tests are increasing, it may still be difficult to find someplace to get tested. see testing for covid-19 for more information."
"the stimulus package expands unemployment insurance benefits. if you have lostyour job because of the outbreak, you will see your  weekly state insurancebenefits  http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2020/03/25/coronavirus-stimulus-how-relief-congress-affects-you-economy/2913656001/  - which averageabout  400 -  increased by 600  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/03/27/coronavirus-stimulus-package-questions-answers/2930656001/  for four months. and if youare still unemployed after state benefits end, you could get an additional 13weeks of help."
"well this is a guess because there is no published data that i am aware of in the english literature to be able to answer the question.  a small percentage of people who have presented with covid-19 pneumonia have also had diarrhoea, it is thought that the faecal-oral route is also an important mode of transmission.   if the person develops a respiratory infection the affected cells will eventually spill virus into the circulation, a condition called viraemia. this allows the virus to reach distant cells that bear the ace2 surface receptor and these cells are also in the heart, kidneys and gut as well as monocytes. one would also expect that intestinal cells affected primarily by ingestion of virus particles would also do the same, and produce a viraemia leading to the virus spreading to the lungs, heart and kidneys. but they may present initially with diarrhoea before getting respiratory symptoms. "
"a cabin crewmember here.  this is different from airline to another, and country to another, but i can safely assume there are a lot of similarities when it comes to this, as most of the airlines get the instructions from local civil aviation authorities and local health ministries, both authorities get the information from higher global organizations.   the airline i work for supplied its fleet recently with a contagious disease kit, which shall be used by the cabin crew once there are signs of an infected passenger. this kit includes masks to be distributed once needed, a disinfectant liquid  the same as in hospitals  to clean surfaces around the sick passenger, gloves, etc. also, my airline allowed its crewmembers to wear masks if they wish to on flights from/to certain destinations.  as i said, not sure if the same is being followed by other airlines. regardless of that, you should inform the cabin crew right away, they are in this with you, they will know what to do. these days our mailboxes are being filled with health information and updates regarding this, and because we are exposed more than the average person, we really care about this.  finally, what you should worry about is the infected people during the incubation period with no symptoms at all  this has been confirmed , they are as contagious with no way of knowing that. people with fever  a common symptom after the virus incubation period  will not be allowed to board. therefore, it is advised that you follow basic prevention measures, such as washing your hands, avoiding touching your eyes, nose or mouth, cover your mouth when you cough or sneeze, wear a mask  n-95 mask , etc.  this seems like a virus masterpiece, only the coming few days will let us know how serious this is. "
"when working with mathematical models, it is always good to check the assumptions of the model. the logistic function is often used when modelling population growth, and specifically where the rate of reproduction is proportional to both the existing population and the amount of available resources, all else being equal. letting  p  represent population size, the differential equation is        displaystyle   frac  dp  dt   rp cdot  left 1-  frac  p  k   right ,     where the constant  r  defines the growth rate and  k  is the carrying capacity, see the link for more details. the solution, letting  p 0  be the initial population, is    p t    frac  kp  0 e  rt   k p  0  left e  rt -1 right       thus, this model would be appropriate if italy did nothing to mitigate the spread of the virus, but they are in fact using quarantine. the effect of wrong modelling assumptions would be that if you cross-validated the fitted model, you would get poor results.   additionally, since the shape of the logistic function is     and in your data, it does not seem to include the part where the curve flattens out, i would suspect that the parameter describing that phenomenon,  k , would have a high variance from your estimation procedure. an intuitive explanation for this can be done by plotting the function for different  k  and constant  r :    in this figure, if there is only data for  t  between 0 and 1 would not reveal so much information on  k , other than if  k  is around 10, compared to  k  gt  100 . more formally, assuming you are doing maximum likelihood estimation, you can look at the eigenvalues of the hessian of the corresponding likelihood function, to see if optimization problem is well conditioned.  "
"communicable diseases are endemic to the human condition  some places, times and situations are riskier than others but there is always a risk in widespread travel. outside of disease spread, there are other risks in travel  for example, if no-one traveled at all there would be no motor vehicle deaths.  on the flip-side, not traveling has its own dangers  for example, you will not die in a house fire if you are in your car.  of course, there are enormous benefits to widespread travel  economic, cultural and personal - life is to be experienced after all.  if you stop the skier from skiing, then you have just damaged the livelihood of all the people who depend on tourism  the airline, the hotel, the bartender, the ski technician, the baker in the ski resort etc.  everything is allowed unless it is prohibited  by and large, this is the way that the law works. it is legal to do anything you like. unless it is not.  it is not illegal to travel to, say, finland. so you can.  if the government  of whichever country  decides that the costs of allowing people to travel to finland now outweigh the benefits then they can prohibit it. however, that is a political decision  not a legal one.  as for your drink-driving example, i am old enough to remember when it was not illegal to drive drunk, although i was too young to drive. of course, if you are in somalia or kenya it is still legal. also, what counts a drunk varies by country - you can have a couple in finland but cross over into russia and you are breaking the law. why does finland allow such recklessness  because it is a political decision and politicians in finland and russia have reached different conclusions about what level of risk is acceptable. same with travel restrictions. "
he can tell the world  you chose to tell him. he has no duty of confidence with you  he is not your health professional  so he can tell whoever he likes however he likes. 
"most viruses do not spread easily on airplanes because of how the air circulates and is filtered, the cdc says.   modern commercial jets recirculate 10-50  of the air in the cabin, mixed with outside air.    the recirculated air passes through a series of filters 20-30 times per hour,  the cdc says.    furthermore, air generally circulates in defined areas within the aircraft, thus limiting the radius of distribution of pathogens spread by small-particle aerosols. as a result, the cabin air environment is not conducive to the spread of most infectious diseases.   still, try to avoid contact with anyone sneezing or coughing. and if you are feeling sick, cover your entire mouth and nose with the inside of your elbow when you cough or sneeze."
"if hotel is cancelling, you will get refund. since hotel said that they did not charge, you have two things to do.   contact booking site, hotels.com and explain the situation and ask them to reverse the charge. if they are non responsive, contact the credit card provider and say that you are disputing the charge, as you did not get the service. mention that you did not initiate the cancellation.   you will get your money back by then. "
"no, for several reasons, says peter hotez, dean of the national school oftropical medicine at baylor college of medicine.while a protective antibody is generated in those who are infected, scientists are not yetsure  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/12/coronavirus-reader-questions-answered-symptoms-testing-elderly/5012457002/  whether thatimmunity will last for a short period of time, for years or for life. some saythe possibility of reinfection is very likely.moreover, a  new federal health reportsays  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/19/coronavirus-illnesses-can-serious-young-adults-cdc-report/2874271001/  americans of allages have faced serious health complications amid the outbreak. data from thecdc show that among the roughly 12  of covid-19 cases in the u.s. known toneed hospitalizations, about 1 in 5 were among people ages 20 to 44. anywherefrom 14  to 21  of adults ages 20 to 44 with covid-19 have been hospitalized,the cdc data estimates. two to 4  of cases led to icu admissions, and lessthan 1  were fatal.finally, it is important to avoid getting and spreading the virus. while theyoung may not be the most at risk, they are carrying the disease to those whoare more vulnerable, such as older people and those with underlyingconditions. dr. deborah birx, a member of the white house coronavirus taskforce, on wednesday urged  the millennial generation  to take specialprecautions.  you have the potential to spread it,  she said."
"the world health organization  who  has reported at least 81,191 cases of the virus as of wednesday morning. the vast majority of those cases, 78,064, are in mainland china, and most of those are in hubei province, the epicenter of the outbreak. but officials are increasingly worried about south korea, where the number of cases has climbed from just a handful to more than 1,200 in the last week or so. an outbreak in italy has infected 322 people, a worrying sign that the virus may be gaining a foothold in europe. seven other european nations confirmed new cases of the virus overnight. and an outbreak in iran has infected more than 100 residents.  the sudden increases in cases in italy, the islamic republic of iran and the republic of korea are deeply concerning,  who director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus said wednesday. the iranian outbreak has spawned new cases in bahrain, iraq, kuwait and oman  the italian outbreak is now linked to cases in algeria, austria, croatia, germany, spain and switzerland. tuesday marked a sobering moment for epidemiologists watching the virus: it was the first day that more new cases were confirmed in countries besides china than new cases in china itself, according to the who. there have been 57 cases diagnosed in the united states, 36 of whom were repatriated from the diamond princess cruise ship. most of the rest of the cases have occurred in travelers who have recently returned from china. just two people have been infected in the united states itself."
"the who released a joined statement with the icao   on the who website it is dated 11 march 2020 . it does not mention travel restrictions directly. it does, however, stress cooperation at different levels, for example between  aviation and health authorities .   my interpretation is that the who is leaving such restrictions up to the states, at least in their public statements.  "
"there is no evidence from the outbreak that eating garlic, sipping water every 15 minutes or taking vitamin c will protect people from the new coronavirus. same goes for using essential oils, colloidal silver and steroids."
"yes, you can get both loans, but the key is to use the money to cover different expenses. section 1102 a  2  g , the section outlining the ppp loans, explains the borrower requirements. it says the borrower has to certify that  the eligible recipient has not received amounts under this subsection for the same purpose and duplicative amounts.  as a reminder, eidls can be used to cover:  paid sick leave to employees unable to work due to the direct effect of covid-19. maintain payroll increased costs due to supply chain disruption rent or mortgage payments repaying obligations that cannot be met due to revenue loss  ppp loan funds can be used to cover:  payroll costs group health care benefits during periods of paid, sick, medical, or family leave, and insurance premiums. interest on a mortgage obligation rent, under lease agreements in force before february 15, 2020 utilities, for which service began before february 15, 2020 interest on any debt incurred before february 15, 2020  so, if you are getting an eidl to cover payroll expenses, you can not get a ppp to cover payroll for the length of the forgiveness period  eight weeks from when the loan is due . you would have to use the eidl for different operating expenses or payroll for a different period. this will also go for other state or local assistance. that being said, you do not have to have both. if you have already gotten an eidl for payroll purposes but just want the ppp loan, you can refinance the loan into a ppp. any amount that was given to you as a grant under the eidl will reduce the amount forgiven under ppp."
"you are not understanding it correctly  there is a significant difference between an aerosol, dust and droplets. furthermore the intermixing of air is not as you claim it is, it is in fact, quite static. if air just went everywhere immediately there would not be clouds, temperature differences, or indeed any weather effects at all.  a question you could ask yourself is: with my current understanding, covid-19 should be everywhere. there should not exist differences between cities and rural areas, or between countries. but there is.  listen to the advice of health services and the government. they know their shit. "
"the c.d.c.    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks-coronavirus- cdc.html  recommends  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks- coronavirus-cdc.html  that all americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. this shift in federal guidance, announced by president trump at a white house briefing, reflects    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html  new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html . those who are sick with the coronavirus  can help limit the spread  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/health/us-coronavirus-face- masks.html  of respiratory droplets by wearing a mask, and that applies to those who are asymptomatic or undiagnosed as well. plus, some organizations are using fabric masks as a temporary stopgap  civilians should not use  medical-grade masks  http://www.nytimes.com/article/face-masks- coronavirus.html , which are in short supply and must be reserved for health care workers on the front line . the sewing and craft alliance is continuously updating a list of  health care facilities  http://www.weneedmasks.org/list/  that have asked for fabric mask donations. the new york times and other news outlets had been reporting the c.d.c. is previous guidance."
"the first thing you should do is contact your new employer. they may have procedures in place for any people coming for affected zones  china, northern italy, iran...  to be isolated from other staff and/or the public.  it is difficult to guess what measures will be taken by the various authorities in iran, qatar and austria regarding quarantine and isolation, or even outright travel bans, as this can change by the hour.  qatar airways have already cancelled 2 out of 3 of the flights from tehran to doha these last few days, and in the upcoming days.  even if there are no bans or quarantines, and even taking into account switching to a larger plane and cancellations/rebookings, squeezing passengers booked on 3 different flights on a single probably means severe overbooking. be prepared to be bumped off the flight if there are qatari citizens or residents and/or premium passengers that need a seat on that plane.  the remaining flight on saturday has been rescheduled to over an hour earlier. add to that there will probably be lots of additional checks before boarding, and the fact that there will be overbooking, and you should be at the airport a lot earlier that you would normally have, probably before midnight. you want to be the first in the queue. if online/mobile check-in is possible, do it as soon as it opens. you want your boarding pass to show  seq 001 .  i suppose the rescheduling is to account for additional checks on arrival  as well as thorough disinfection of the aircraft after the flight  in order not to have issues with short connections.  current qatar airways procedures for flights from iran:    in line with various global and local health warnings, all incoming passengers from iran and south korea whose final destination is doha and are showing no symptoms of the novel coronavirus will be asked to stay in home isolation or a quarantine facility for 14 days.    passengers arriving from those countries who are showing symptoms will be transferred to the communicable disease centre at the hamad medical corporation.   so if you do not show any symptoms and are only in transit, you should have no issue boarding the flight to vienna, unless austria implements bans or quarantines by then.  good luck  "
"given that none of these countries have their own international airports, and all but monaco are landlocked, it is effectively impossible for nationals of those microstates to reach the us without visiting a schengen country.   presumably, someone from monaco who travels by boat to the uk and flies from there could get away with entry or any nationals who are currently outside the schengen area, but i imagine the final decision will come down to an ice official who will compare the passport to a list of affected countries. "
"covid-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 2019."
"there is still a lot that is unknown about covid-19 and how it spreads. this coronaviruses is thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets. although the virus can survive for a short period on some surfaces, it is unlikely to be spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures. currently there is no evidence to support transmission of covid-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of covid-19 in the united states associated with imported goods. information will be provided on the coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19  website as it becomes available."
"you can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading covid-19 by taking some simple precautions:   1: regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. why  washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.   2: maintain at least 1 metre  3 feet  distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. why  when someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. if you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the covid-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease.   3: avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. why  hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. from there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick.   4: make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. this means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. then dispose of the used tissue immediately. why  droplets spread virus. by following good respiratory hygiene you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and covid-19.   5: stay home if you feel unwell. if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. follow the directions of your local health authority. why  national and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. this will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections.   6: keep up to date on the latest covid-19 hotspots  cities or local areas where covid-19 is spreading widely . if possible, avoid traveling to places - especially if you are an older person or have diabetes, heart or lung disease. why  you have a higher chance of catching covid-19 in one of these areas."
"it is not certain how long the virus that causes covid-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. studies suggest that coronaviruses  including preliminary information on the covid-19 virus  may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. this may vary under different conditions  e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment . if you think a surface may be infected, clean it with a simple disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others. clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. avoid touching your eyes, mouth, or nose."
"it is not completely up to you.    the cdc recently rolled out new guidance, allowing anyone to be tested for covid-19 without restrictions, as long as their doctor approves. testing is on the rise in the u.s., but experts say it is not yet enough.    if you have traveled to an area with local transmission or have been in close contact with someone who has been exposed to the virus, and develop symptoms, such as cough or fever, your health care provider can work with the local health department to determine whether you should be tested for covid-19.    if you have symptoms, but no travel history to an outbreak area, you could go to a clinic and have a rapid test done to rule out more common viruses, such as influenza, merson advised.    if you have mild symptoms and are worried that you might have covid-19, call your doctor or local health department instead of going to a clinic or doctor is office without an appointment, to ensure you are not potentially exposing others to the virus. if you have severe breathing problems, seek medical attention or call 911 immediately, recommends dr. jennifer ashton, abc news  chief medical correspondent.    you should let the person you speak with know that you have respiratory problems and need to be isolated and seen right away."
"health care in many sub-saharan african countries is extremely sparse. as an example, sierra leone has less than 250 doctors for the entire country. as a result, it is likely that cases in that and similar countries are grossly under-reported. "
ask them. you mentioned that they accepted you already. only they can tell you whether the admission process is affected by the recent events and whether they are willing to accomodate last minute changes to your academic schedule. 
"for the covid-19 coronavirus, the first step of infection occurs in the lungs, when a protein on the surface of the virus binds to a receptor protein on a lung cell. this viral protein is called the spike protein  wrapp, et al. 2020 , and the receptor is known as ace2  angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 .  before proteins can do their work, they need to assemble themselves. this self-assembly is what is called  folding  and there are many, many different ways proteins can fold.  an antibody is a type of folded protein that can block the spike protein from binding to its receptor, therefore preventing the virus from infecting the lung cell.    folding refers to the way human protein folds in the cells that make up your body. we rely on the proteins to keep us healthy and they assemble themselves by folding. but when they misfold, there can be serious consequences to a person is health.  source: folding home homepage    you asked    so why do not researchers just use a normal laptop and run some simulation program which says that next one should test the following candidates    testing protein folding permutations takes a huge amount of computer power. using the network of computers using the folding home app, they are combining the power of all the connected computers at once to work out the protein sequence as quickly as possible.    we can build computational models that accomplish this goal, but it takes a lot of computing power.    this is where you come in  with many computers working towards the same goal, we aim to help develop a therapeutic remedy as quickly as possible  source: folding home covid-19 page .   one protein from 2019-ncov, a protease encoded by the viral rna, has already been crystallized  see: worldwide protein data bank .    although the 2019-ncov spike protein of interest has not yet been resolved bound to ace2, our objective is to use the homologous structure of the sars-cov spike protein to identify therapeutic antibody targets  source: folding home covid-19 page .   references  wrapp, d., wang, n., corbett, k. s., goldsmith, j. a., hsieh, c. l., abiona, o., ...  amp  mclellan, j. s.  2020 . cryo-em structure of the 2019-ncov spike in the prefusion conformation. science 367 6483 , 1260-1263. doi: 10.1126/science.abb2507 "
"neither the metal detectors, nor the full body scanners currently in use at uk airports are designed to measure or detect body temperature. however infrared camera systems designed to do so are fairly simple to install, and are known to be installed at various airports worldwide to catch fever sufferers. on a far simpler level the same kind of non-contact technology is also being used in handheld thermometers.  at the moment this is primarily targeted at travellers from the highest-risk areas  i.e. mainland china . since known cases in the uk are still extremely rare, it is likely you would be recognised as having a high probability of having some other virus  they are rather common after all . having said that, the situation is subject to change, so keep following the news, and consider the worries of your fellow passengers  e.g. carry tissues  amp  hand sanitizer  "
"no. who does not recommend that asymptomatic individuals  i.e., who do not have respiratory symptoms  in the community should wear medical masks, as currently there is no evidence that routine use of medical masks by healthy individuals prevents 2019-ncov transmission. masks are recommended to be used by symptomatic persons in the community. misuse and overuse of medical masks may cause serious issues of shortage of stocks and lack of mask availability for those who actually need to wear them. in health care facilities where health care workers are directly taking care of suspect or confirmed 2019-ncov acute respiratory disease patients, masks are an important part of containing 2019-ncov spread between people, along with other ppe and hand hygiene. for more information on medical mask use, click here."
"i do not understand any choir being compatible with any definition of social distancing. if the german govt is asking you to practice social distancing it means meeting another person at a distance. you can not continue your choir.    what is social distancing     social distancing measures are steps you can take to reduce the social interaction between people. this will help reduce the transmission of coronavirus  covid-19 .    they are:    avoid contact with someone who is displaying symptoms of coronavirus  covid-19 . these symptoms include high temperature and/or new and continuous cough    avoid non-essential use of public transport, varying your travel times to avoid rush hour, when possible    work from home, where possible. your employer should support you to do this. please refer to employer guidance for more information    avoid large gatherings, and gatherings in smaller public spaces such as pubs, cinemas, restaurants, theatres, bars, clubs    avoid gatherings with friends and family. keep in touch using remote technology such as phone, internet, and social media    use telephone or online services to contact your gp or other essential services   http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-guidance-on-social-distancing-and-for-vulnerable-people/guidance-on-social-distancing-for-everyone-in-the-uk-and-protecting-older-people-and-vulnerable-adults "
"official announcement from china government:    in light of the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus  ncov , we  would like to inform you that tianhe international airport  wuh  in  wuhan, hubei province, china is shut down to limit the possibility of  the virus to spread to other places. as for now, other chinese  airports are still operating.   due to this situation, there are a few consequences:  if you have a flight ticket from/to wuhan: your flight is canceled until further notice. you are entitled to a full refund.  if you have a flight ticket from/to other chinese cities: your flight is still operating, unless if there is an announcement from the airline about your flight.  if you are arriving from china: you will be subject to further screening at the destination airport as the authorities want to ensure the virus will not enter the country. please bear the extra process for safety reasons.  you can simply check your flight status from china southern airlines too by putting your booking number or ticket number.   it will also show the status. in addition, simply call china southern airlines to confirm which is the best and reliable way in this situation.  "
"someone who is been infected by covid-19 is asymptomatic but can spread the disease for no more than 14 days. quarantine measures were started in china less than two months after the first case.  someone who is been infected with hiv can be asymptomatic but capable of spreading the disease for 20 years or more. further, the outbreak started sometime between 1910 and 1959, but was not identified as a disease until 1981.  given the long asymptomatic period of hiv and the even longer delay in identifying it as a disease, it is pretty much impossible to stop it by quarantine. "
"a coronavirus emergency relief package, passed by congress in mid-march, gives qualified workers  two weeks of paid sick leave  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/upshot/coronavirus-paid-leave- guide.html  if they are ill, quarantined or seeking a diagnosis or preventive care for the coronavirus, or if they are caring for sick family members. it gives 12 weeks of paid leave to people caring for children whose schools are closed or whose child care provider is unavailable because of the coronavirus. many workers at small and midsize companies and nonprofits can get the paid leave, as can government employees, as long as they have been employed at least 30 days. the law includes people who do not typically get such benefits, like part-time and gig economy workers. but it excludes those at companies with more than 500 people, including many front-line employees at many major retailers and fast-food restaurants. workers at places with fewer than 50 employees are included, but the labor department could exempt small businesses if providing leave would put them out of business. employers can also decline to give leave to workers on the front lines of the crisis: health care providers and emergency responders."
" we really should be,  said dr. anthony fauci, a member of the white house coronavirus task force.    if you look at what is going on across the country, i just do not understand why we are not doing that.   president donald trump has declined to give a nationwide stay-at-home order.  more than 40 states have stay-at-home orders, which generally allow exceptions for grocery shopping, helping a sick loved one or getting outdoor exercise away from other people.  but states with fewer cases of coronavirus also need to be on high alert, fauci said.    if you just look at those  places  and say, nothere are very little infections in this area or that area, we do not have to worry about it,  you are making a big mistake,  he said.  those are tinders that can turn into big fires. "
"people can catch covid-19 from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid-19 coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. this is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter  3 feet  away from a person who is sick. who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share updated findings. can the virus that causes covid-19 be transmitted through the air studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air. see previous answer on  how does covid-19 spread  can covid-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms the main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. the risk of catching covid-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. however, many people with covid-19 experience only mild symptoms. this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. it is therefore possible to catch covid-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill. who is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of covid-19 and will continue to share updated findings. can i catch covid-19 from the feces of someone with the disease the risk of catching covid-19 from the feces of an infected person appears to be low. while initial investigations suggest the virus may be present in feces in some cases, spread through this route is not a main feature of the outbreak. who is assessing ongoing research on the ways covid-19 is spread and will continue to share new findings. because this is a risk, however, it is another reason to clean hands regularly, after using the bathroom and before eating."
" you presumably did some research before deciding on where to apply to in the first place. that research is still valid. any other contact with the institution s  and faculty add to that basis of judgement.  you seem to presume that there is one uniquely right answer on your choice, and that getting to that one answer requires attending an open house. likely, almost any choice could turn out well, or turn out badly, all depending on factors totally divorced from the open house.  note that many people accept without having been to an open house. so, the decision can be made without going to one.  you seem to presume that actions to reduce the spread of the virus are unethical, something that i would hotly contest.   "
"according to the dhs announcement and fact sheet, the procedures for people who have been to schengen area countries within the last 14 days who are exempt from the ban  us citizens, permanent residents, and their immediate family members  are the same as the procedure for people who have been to mainland china  but have not been to hubei province  or iran within the last 14 days.  basically, they will have to arrive in the us at one of 13 designated airports, where they will undergo medical examination. if they have no symptoms, they will be asked to self-monitor their health and limit interactions  the government also calls this  self-quarantine   until 14 days after they have left the schengen area, but there are no formal restrictions on where they can go.  only people who have been to hubei province within the last 14 days are subject to a formal, mandatory quarantine so far. "
"this is actually a handbook example of determining the sample size needed for estimating binomial proportion  e.g. jones et al, 2004, naing, 2003 for other references and examples .  first of all, to make it more precise, we are talking about finding such sample size, that with probability   alpha , the difference between the true probability of being infected  p  and it is estimate   hat p  is not greater then   100 times delta ,          pr  p -  hat p   le  delta p     alpha     given that the target population is large, we would usually assume binomial distribution to represent it, i.e. we say that it is large enough, that the chance of randomly sampling someone more then once is negligible. the distribution is parametrized by probability of  success   here, probability of being infected   p  and the number of samples we draw  n . let is denote the observed number of infected people as  k , in such case,   hat p   k/n  is the fraction of infected people in the sample and we treat it as an estimate of the number of infected people in the whole population. if we wanted to calculate confidence interval for   hat p , we could use normal approximation      hat p  pm z  alpha  sqrt  frac  hat p 1- hat p   n       where  z  alpha  is the ordinate from standard normal distribution, where for  z  drawn from standard normal distribution we have   pr -z  alpha  lt  z  lt  z  alpha     alpha . you are saying, that you would like to see this interval to be equal to   hat p  pm  delta p . as discussed in the linked resources, you can solve this, so that for given  p , precision   delta , and certanity   alpha , you can guesstimate the sample size needed     n  approx  big  frac z  alpha   delta p  big  2    p 1-p      assuming   100  times  alpha      99    confidence interval, we can plot this for different values of  p , to find out that for  100  times p  gt  4     the needed sample sizes are generally not much larger then  2000  samples.    for example, for  p 0.04    4    infected  this yields:     gt  z  lt - function alpha  qnorm alpha   gt  n  lt - function p, alpha 0.99, delta 0.25   z alpha / p delta   2   p  1-p   gt  n 0.04   1  2078.167   to convince yourself, you can verify this by simulation, where you would draw  n  samples from binomial distribution with probability of infection  p , repeat this procedure  r  times, and then verify how often was your result not further then   100  times  delta      from the true value:   gt  set.seed 123   gt  sim  lt - function p, n, delta, nsim 50000  mean abs p - rbinom nsim, n, p /n  / p  lt   delta   gt  sim 0.04, 2078, 0.25   1  0.97858   so we wanted to be  99    sure and the approximation gives us, while the in the simulation, in  97.8    cases the result was within the interval. not bad.  notice that this is just a simple approximation for the calculation, assuming simple random sampling. in case of whole population locked in their houses, sampling individuals at random may be not as hard as in case of most of the usual surveys. on another hand, things may not go as smooth as planned, or you may be willing to use other sampling schema, to have higher chance for it being representative, what would make calculating it more complicated. moreover, the tests used are not perfect and give false results as described, for example by new york times, or washington post, and you would need to account for that as well. also you need to remember, there were many examples where such simple problems get more complicated then expected, e.g. social surveys on trump is support before the election got very wrong, nonetheless that they used state of art survey methodology. "
"here is an article that i found helpful, to understand why washing hands with soap is so helpful, and how it helps  pall thordarson is a professor of chemistry at the university of new south wales, sydney :    why does soap work so well on the sars-cov-2, the coronavirus and  indeed most viruses  the short story: because the virus is a  self-assembled nanoparticle in which the weakest link is the lipid   fatty  bilayer. soap dissolves the fat membrane and the virus falls  apart like a house of cards and dies - or rather, we should say it  becomes inactive as viruses are not really alive.    the slightly longer story is that most viruses consist of three key  building blocks: ribonucleic acid  rna , proteins and lipids. a  virus-infected cell makes lots of these building blocks, which then  spontaneously self-assemble to form the virus. critically, there are  no strong covalent bonds holding these units together, which means you  do not necessarily need harsh chemicals to split those units apart.  when an infected cell dies, all these new viruses escape and go on to  infect other cells. some end up also in the airways of lungs.    when you cough, or especially when you sneeze, tiny droplets from the  airways can fly up to 10 metres. the larger ones are thought to be the  main coronavirus carriers and they can go at least two metres.    these tiny droplets end on surfaces and often dry out quickly. but the  viruses remain active. human skin is an ideal surface for a virus. it  is  organic  and the proteins and fatty acids in the dead cells on the  surface interact with the virus.    when you touch, say, a steel surface with a virus particle on it, it  will stick to your skin and hence get transferred on to your hands. if  you then touch your face, especially your eyes, nostrils or mouth, you  can get infected. and it turns out that most people touch their face  once every two to five minutes.    washing the virus off with water alone might work. but water is not  good at competing with the strong, glue-like interactions between the  skin and the virus. water is not enough.    soapy water is totally different. soap contains fat-like substances  known as amphiphiles, some of which are structurally very similar to  the lipids in the virus membrane. the soap molecules  compete  with  the lipids in the virus membrane. this is more or less how soap also  removes normal dirt from the skin.    the soap not only loosens the  glue  between the virus and the skin  but also the velcro-like interactions that hold the proteins, lipids  and rna in the virus together.    alcohol-based products, which pretty much includes all  disinfectant   products, contain a high-percentage alcohol solution  typically 60-80   ethanol  and kill viruses in a similar fashion. but soap is better  because you only need a fairly small amount of soapy water, which,  with rubbing, covers your entire hand easily. whereas you need to  literally soak the virus in ethanol for a brief moment, and wipes or  rubbing a gel on the hands does not guarantee that you soak every  corner of the skin on your hands effectively enough.    so, soap is the best, but do please use alcohol-based sanitiser when  soap is not handy or practical.  "
"handwashing is one of the best ways to protect yourself and your family from getting sick. wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing  going to the bathroom  and before eating or preparing food. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60  alcohol."
"i decided to elevate my comment to an answer.    when this is all over, and most of your readers will probably know multiple people who died during the crisis, this would not be a good  look .   this is a global crisis that is only just beginning. by the time the dust settles, millions may have died from the virus alone. it would be a rare reader who does not personally know someone affected. more will have died because of how overwhelmed the global healthcare system is.   even more will be affected by the economic fallout.  viral infections can have lifelong consequences, even if you live.   if you are in a medical field, many of your readers will be caregivers who were worked to the bone for months, and had to make impossible triage decisions.   for your readers, researchers are forced to halt research, often at great expense. many studies cannot be paused for three months and picked up at the same place.   and you are proposing to put in your acknowledgements  gee i got so much done while quarantined   this is offensive at best, and obscene at worst. we in universities are extremely lucky that our pay will most likely not be stopped, and we can just pick up and work from home. that is not happening for most of the nation.   frankly, i would be ashamed to be your co-author, and if you were in my field, put you on blast across every channel i knew how. do not do this. "
" major problem  is premature.  potential major problem  though - that is likely, depending on what the examiners are disagreeing about. it is possible your thesis is fatally flawed, but it is also possible one of the examiners is wrong.  either way you can not do anything right now, so there is nothing to do except wait for the official email. "
here are studies on viability at different temperature for similar viruses    http://www.journalofhospitalinfection.com/article/s0195-6701 20 30046-3/fulltext 
"it is too early to know for sure. but other coronaviruses, like ones that cause the common cold, might give us clues.   with  common cold coronaviruses, you do not actually have immunity that lasts for very long, and so we do not know the answer with this specific coronavirus,  said dr. celine gounder, a professor of medicine and infectious diseases at the new york university school of medicine.   that is actually going to be one of the challenges with designing a vaccine is how do you actually cause the immunity to last long enough to protect you. "
"it is important to assure continuous access to essential hiv prevention, testing and treatment services also where measurements of confinement are implemented within the public health response to the covid-19 pandemic. while access to essential services should be maintained, adapted and evidence-based measures to reduce possible transmission should be considered and implemented. these include 12 : applying standard precautions for all patients  including ensuring that all patients cover their nose and mouth with a tissue or elbow when coughing or sneezing, offering a medical mask to patients with suspected covid-19 infection while they are in waiting in the service, perform hand hygiene etc.  health care and outreachworkers, as well as peer educators and clients should apply adapted handhygiene measuresensuring triage, earlyrecognition, and source control  isolating patients with suspectedcovid-19 infection ensure there is adequateventilation in all areas in the healthcare facilityspatial separation of at least1 metre should ideally be maintained between all patients within all typesof servicescleaning and disinfectionprocedures should be followed consistently and correctlydispensing medicines  for treatment of hiv, tb andother chronic conditions such as opioid dependence  for longer periodsallowing reduced frequency of patient visits consider reduction of services to the most criticalones  provision of essential treatment and prevention services  servicessuch as counselling sessions may be reduced or adapted generally, vulnerable populations, including members of key populations, as well as homeless and/or displaced people may be at increased risk of infection - because of additional comorbidities impacting on their immune system, reduced ability to apply measures of confinement and social distancing, as well as generally limited access to health services. it is critical that services that reach these populations such as community-based services, drop-in centres and outreach services can continue providing life-saving prevention  distribution of condoms, needles and syringes , testing and treatment while securing safety of staff and clients. services can be adapted according to above considerations where applicable."
"if you have symptoms and want to get tested, the cdc recommends calling your state or local health department or a medical provider.  not sure if you should get tested  the cdc website features a  self-checker  to help you make decisions about seeking medical care. the feature is not intended for the diagnosis or treatment of covid-19 and is intended only for people in the u.s."
"there is currently no known difference between the clinical manifestations of covid-19 or risk of severe illness or foetal compromise for pregnant and non-pregnant women or adults of reproductive age. pregnant and recently pregnant women with suspected or confirmed covid-19 should be treated with supportive and management therapies, considering the immunologic and physiologic adaptations during and after pregnancy which may overlap with covid-19 symptoms. data are limited but, until the evidence base provides clearer information, special consideration should be given to pregnant women with concomitant medical illnesses who could be infected with covid-19. there are no reported deaths in pregnant women at time of publishing this information 17  however, covid-19 testing of symptomatic pregnant women may need to be prioritized to enable access to specialized care. all recently pregnant women with covid-19 or who have recovered from covid-19 should be provided with information and counselling on safe infant feeding and appropriate ipc measures to prevent covid-19 virus transmission 18 .with confirmed disease or under investigation, management is similar to non-pregnant women, with appropriate isolation of confirmed or under investigation. obstetric facilities must be notified and prepared, noting that each infant born to any mother with confirmed covid-19 should be considered a  person under investigation  and should be isolated according to the ipc guidance. currently, it is unknown whether newborns with covid-19 are at increased risk for severe complications."
"do not visit family members with suspected illness - keep up with them virtually.  if that loved one lives with you, limit contact with them and avoid using the same bathroom or bedroom, the cdc advises.  if they have been diagnosed, they may be able to recover at home in isolation. separate yourself as much as possible from your infected family member and keep animals away, too. continue to use separate restrooms and regularly disinfect them with epa-approved products.  stock up on groceries and household supplies for them while they can not travel outside and minimize trips to stores. wash your hands frequently and avoid sharing personal items with the infected person.  if you suspect you are developing symptoms, stay home and call your physician."
"several states have already postponed their primaries. officials in states that are going ahead with primaries have been  trying to emphasize the new basics of voting hygiene  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/09/us/virus- election-voting.html , like using hand sanitizer at polling stations. and though the general election has yet to begin, it is already  being profoundly shaped by the coronavirus  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/us/politics/coronavirus-2020-campaign.html , which has become the central issue between president trump and the two major democratic candidates, former vice president joseph r. biden jr. and senator bernie sanders of vermont. the pandemic is effects on the economy have challenged mr. trump is core message, that americans are better off than before he took office. mr. biden has proposed a detailed plan for hospitals and research, echoing the language of presidents in past crises. he and mr. sanders curtailed their travel and canceled large gatherings like rallies. it would be enormously difficult to cancel or postpone the november general election, though."
"because your hands are covered in a thick crust of dirt, dust and fats, in which the virus can hide.   but anyway still nobody has been able to show that this virus is regularily  or even rarely  transmitted via smear infection.  if someone knows about any evidence to the contrary, please come forward. and yes, some other diseases, especially bacterial infections, do even mainly take this route. that is how you usually get the  shits .   it can be detected on surfaces after hours via pcr, however pcr is as sensitive to broken down pieces of a virus particle as it is to the fresh, contagious specimen. obviously the rna pieces also of a destroyed virus would not evaporate, so the result of these investigations proves nothing but the extremely obvious. newspapers are spreading it as a piece of clickbait and tinder, causing people to buy lots of  sanitizers .  anyway, use soap, leave the disinfectants to the health care people who absolutely, direly need them, and be done. "
"aciclovir specifically targets hsv-family viruses.  it is metabolized by a viral-specific enzyme into an inhibitor of the specific dna polymerase expressed by the virus:    in infected cells, hsv or vzv coded thymidine kinase facilitates  the conversion of aciclovir to aciclovir monophosphate, which is then converted to aciclovir triphosphate by cellular enzymes. aciclovir triphosphate acts as an inhibitor of and substrate for the herpes specified dna polymerase, preventing further viral dna synthesis.    http://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/pdf openagent amp id cp-2009-pi-00595-3  other viruses do not express these specific enzymes, and even if they have similar enzymes they may not interact the same way with the drug. even within the herpesvirus family, the drug is not equally effective against every virus.  coronaviruses are rna viruses, so even though the drug is not effective for dna viruses outside the herpesvirus family, coronaviruses are definitely not going to be affected because they do not even have a dna polymerase to inhibit. "
"dogs - like humans - usually choose a certain place as their  bathroom  to do their business there. as long as the poop does not pile up without ever disappearing, they will stick to this bathroom.  if your dog is toilet trained, it learned that the bathroom is somewhere outside and never in the house. if you really lock it up inside there are 2 consequences:   your dog will hold its pee and poop as long as possible, because it cannot go to the bathroom. that is very uncomfortable and can have negative effects on the health. sooner or later, your dog has to make a mess, every single day. it will learn that the toilet is now inside the house and it will be extremely hard to stop this behavior again if the covid-19 crisis is over.   so my best advice is: go outside for your dogs toiletry needs, no matter what your government says.  the quote implies that your government is very aware that it is impossible to lock dogs inside the house.     if you really want to walk your dog, do it around your house - it ends there.    if you do not have a yard where your dog can do its business, you have a reason to  really want to walk your dog . but please stick to the streets / walkways closest to your home and do not wander through half the city into a crouded dog park. if one round around the house is not enough for your dog, walk 2 or 3 rounds around the house, but do stay close to the house. "
"some of the most important  measures you can take to help manage anxiety  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/smarter-living/coronavirus- anxiety-tips.html , experts say, include staying informed on the facts, asking for help and practicing self-compassion. for some people, anxiety manifests in feeling helpless or underreacting to what they are experiencing. recognize your own agency and start taking care of the common-sense precautionary measures that are within your control, like stocking up on a  couple of extra weeks  supply  http://www.ready.gov/pandemic  of food or medication. maintaining social connection, despite physical distance, is also important. reach out to others via phone calls, emails or video chats, and talk through the feelings you are experiencing. it is important to be gentle with yourself, and maintain any kind of routine you can to have a sense of stability. practice self-care, whether that means doing an at-home workout, baking, maintaining a regular religious practice or journaling. focusing on these things can help bring some peace of mind. if your anxiety is debilitating, seek out a mental health professional or other clinical mental health services."
"broadly speaking, the fed can only keep markets liquid by doing things like buying assets or making loans to banks against assets owned by the banks. that is awesome if you are worried that mortgage-backed securities are tanking in value and the fed can come along and prop up their value until the panic is over. that is a concern today but it was a much bigger concern back in 2008 when the housing bubble burst.   it is useless if your goal is to get money into the hands of people or small businesses that need it to pay rent or pay their mortgages today. if congress wants to get money to those folks, it has to pass legislation to spend the money.  fed spending is also very different from congressional spending because the fed is generally buying  or lending against  assets, it is not generating spending that drives demand. most of the fed is  1.5 t involves going to banks that have some assets and saying  hey, nice assets. we would love to give you a cheap loan if you put those assets up as collateral.  that ensures that banks have plenty of money on hand to be able to lend out and ensures that there is a willing buyer for whatever assets the fed is lending against. eventually, though, banks are going to give the fed back that  1.5 t with a small bit of interest.  "
"this decision is personal and depends on your tolerance for risk. many places around the world have ordered -- or strongly urged -- residents to stay indoors, unless they absolutely need to be outside. if you can avoid the subway, that may be smart, but if you can not, there are things you can do to minimize your risk. avoid jam-packed cars. if you need to hold onto a pole, use a disposable glove that you can throw away when you leave the subway.  avoid touching your face.  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/05/health/stop-touching-your-face- coronavirus.html  at the grocery store, wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home."
"assume there is a corporation that makes spoons, with  10m in cash. its single factory is already pumping out as many spoons as it can. there is also no need to open a new factory, because our market research team has determined that no one will buy the new spoons from the new factory. our r amp d team does not know how to make anything but spoons.  so, what does the company do with the cash  it could  1  sit on it, and earn basically nothing. or it could  2  invest it in something completely unrelated to the spoon business. or, it could  3  send it back to the shareholders. let is look at each option:   1  if the company just keeps the cash in the bank account, then it will earn basically no interest, and the investors who own shares in the corporation will be unhappy to get such little returns on corporate assets. if they wanted to have a low-risk cash portfolio, they would do that with their own money, they would not want their spoon-making-investment to make that decision for them.   2  if the company invests in non-spoon related things, then perhaps it will get into trouble by making foolish business decisions. buying a fork-making factory could lead to trouble - why what if our spoon scientists forget to make the tines, and just makes the whole thing rounded, based on what worked for them in spoon making   again, if a company steps outside of its area of expertise, it is deciding, on behalf of its shareholders, to diversify its portfolio. but the shareholders could make that decision themselves, and does not necessarily want the corporation to make this decision. note that some companies do successfully diversify, but it is typically part of an overarching plan that makes sense together, or else it often fails.   3  if the company returns the cash to the shareholders they can decide for themselves what to do with the cash. some will invest in low-risk things like government bonds or simple savings accounts earning minimal interest. some will invest in competing spoon-makers, and some might invest in new fork-making ventures. but the decision on how to invest goes back to the individual shareholders.  buying back stock is just one way to get money back to shareholders. the other common way would be to pay out a dividend. in financial theory, there are basically 3 differences between a share buy-back and a dividend:  a  a buyback is optional, meaning only the shareholders looking to sell their shares, will have shares bought by the company   b  a buyback happens relative to the current share price in the market, meaning that part of the decision to make a buyback could be based on whether the company believes itself to be undervalued  and  c  the tax implications are different  in general, most countries tax capital gains on selling your shares, at a lower rate than corporate dividends .  so, why would a bank do a share buyback right now  probably because interest rates are at a historic low, meaning that the bank has a limited ability to invest its capital to earn what it feels are good returns. so instead, it is leaving the choice to its shareholders how to invest - and because the bank probably feels its shares are undervalued, it is preferential to do this instead of paying a dividend. for the shareholders who remain in the company, the increase in share price is an indication that the decision made by the bank was one that benefited them.  quick note on the political aspect hinted at here: the main reason it is contentious to do a share buy-back in times like this, is that a government could give a stimulus package to a business, with the goal of having that business invest in itself, hire workers, etc.  if instead of investing in itself it just pays out the cash to shareholders, the government has effectively  bailed out  the relatively wealthy individuals who own shares, rather than the working class who they were attempting to get jobs for. "
covid-19 can be passed from person to person through droplets from coughs and sneezes. 
"in many  poorer non-first world countries  it is going to be very challenging. people often need to work every day in order to  eat  the next day, which prohibits social distancing measures. they have a problem with the availability of sanitation - for hand cleaning. the density of the population in some of these countries is also very significant, which can provide an additional risk factor for a greater spread of the virus.  from past epidemics for example in sub-saharan africa, they needed a lot of mostly international humanitarian help. medical systems in poor countries usually have little capacity to deal with a huge number of cases. they also do not have a way for effective testing for the virus, laboratories... the question is to what extent can humanitarian help be made available.    rich countries  and international organizations providing governance, medicine, and other resources are currently in the core of epidemics themselves. this crisis is also economically challenging, which adds prohibitive cost to invest in humanitarian help for poorer countries. imf is currently planning to lend around  1trn to developing countries, and hopefully, g20 will also provide at least some humanitarian capacity to help them. from a political point of perspective, china can use this as an opportunity to extend its influence over developing economies requiring help with fighting covid virus.  prohibitive measures could also be used by some of the political regimes to tighten their grip on power which could lead to destabilization.  on the other hand for example in india, you have a huge pharmaceutical sector which makes medicine, which can help in providing antibiotics or other types of medicine which could be beneficial for sick people.  the virus could also be weakened by a warm climate, which is not yet scientifically proven. population structure in poor countries is usually much younger, which is another benefit, although people can be malnourished and have different medical problems which could make things worse if they were to become infected by coronavirus.  sources, to read more: the coronavirus could devastate poor countries economist-coronavirus-in-india "
the coronavirus that is keeping us all at home started off in animals and then jumped to humans. scientists say that when it stops spreading in humans it will not totally disappear. it will still probably be around in animals.
"  stay in touch with your child is school.  many schools are offering lessons online  virtual learning . review assignments from the school, and help your child establish a reasonable pace for completing the work. you may need to assist your child with turning on devices, reading instructions, and typing answers. communicate challenges to your school. if you face technology or connectivity issues, or if your child is having a hard time completing assignments, let the school know.   create a schedule and routine for learning at home, but remain flexible.  have consistent bedtimes, and get up at the same time, monday through friday. structure the day for learning, free time, healthy meals and snacks, and physical activity. allow flexibility in the schedule--it is okay to adapt based on your day.   consider the needs and adjustment required for your child is age group.  the transition to being at home will be different for preschoolers, k-5, middle school students, and high school students. talk to your child about expectations and how they are adjusting to being at home versus at school. consider ways your child can stay connected with their friends without spending time in person.   look for ways to make learning fun.  have hands-on activities, like puzzles, painting, drawing, and making things. independent play can also be used in place of structured learning. encourage children to build a fort from sheets or practice counting by stacking blocks. practice handwriting and grammar by writing letters to family members. this is a great way to connect and limit face-to-face contact. start a journal with your child to document this time and discuss the shared experience. use audiobooks or see if your local library is hosting virtual or live-streamed reading events.    "
"if you have been in contact with a person with a covid-19 infection while they were ill, you need to isolate yourself for 14 days after you last saw that person. in general, stay home as much as you can. if you have to go out, from midnight monday, march 30, you cannot see more than one other person. this applies to both private and public gatherings and indoor and outdoor spaces. for example, if you go to the park, you can only go with one person. the restrictions do not apply within your household - if you live in a sharehouse of four, you can still see your housemates. you are also allowed to visit family members in other houses, including your partner. announcing this restriction, the prime minister said acceptable reasons to leave the house include:shopping for what you needfor medical care or compassionate needs  e.g. caring for someone else to exercise  provided no more than two people in a group for work and education  if you cannot work or learn remotely  the general aim of physical distancing rules is to avoid situations where you may come in close contact with others  face-to-face contact closer than one metre for more than 15 minutes or being in the same closed space for two hours . avoid shaking hands, crowds of people, and busy indoor and outdoor spaces."
"this may depend on whether you are permanent or casual. usually, if you are asked by your employer not to work  assuming you are a full-time or part-time employee , you would be entitled to be paid. however, that typically applies to natural disasters, and not a pandemic like covid-19. experts say that, unless there is a special clause in your enterprise agreement, employers may be able to stand employees down without pay. this will vary with each employer, so it is best to check with them. for casual workers and independent contractors, including gig economy workers, the situation is potentially more grim. according to fair work, if you are a casual employee needing to look after a family member who is sick with coronavirus, or suffering an unexpected emergency, you are entitled to just two days of unpaid carer is leave per occasion. after that, you will need to contact your employer to work out an arrangement. casual employees and independent contractors may qualify for the sickness allowance, a means-tested payment that provides up to  560 for singles without children and  1,010 for couples out of work due to illness. the government has waived the one-week waiting period to access the allowance. the federal government has increased existing payments for welfare allowances, and expanding eligibility criteria for new applicants, for six months to late september. you can apply for this without going into centrelink. more information here."
"according to item 2-vi in the following link about revocation of status of residence, your residence status is not automatically revoked at the 90 days mark.  http://www.immi-moj.go.jp/english/tetuduki/zairyuu/torikeshi.html    where a foreign national staying in japan with the status of residence  listed in the left-hand column of appended table i of the immigration  control act note  has failed to continue to engage in the activity  corresponding to that status for three months or more  excluding the  case where the foreign national has a justifiable reason for not  engaging in the said activity     the list of status of residence in the left-hand column of appended table i is as follow.      note  the status of residence listed in the left-hand column of  appended table i of the immigration control act    diplomat  official  professor  artist  religious activities   journalist  business manager and administrator  legal/accounting  services  medical services  researcher  instructor  engineer and  specialist in humanities/international services  intra-company  transferee  entertainer  skilled labor  technical intern training   cultural activities  temporary visitor  student  trainee  dependent   designated activities   which reason qualifies as justifiable is up to the immigration bureau. however, assuming that you cannot return to japan because of the current covid-19 pandemic, i think you have a good case to justify your absent. "
"remember, the vast majority of australians are not being told to self-isolate. it only applies to those who have recently come back from overseas,  before midnight on march 28 - after then its forced quarantine , or if you have been in contact with someone who tested positive for covid-19. but if you are one of those people who has to self-isolate, it means that you need to stay away from all situations where you could infect other people. this means any situation where you may come in close contact with others  face-to-face contact closer than one metre for more than 15 minutes or being in the same closed space for two hours . you should avoid social gatherings, work, school, child care, university, sports gatherings, restaurants, and all other public gatherings. you should try not to leave the house. if your outside areas are a shared space in a building or apartment block, it is best to wear a surgical mask while out there. stay in your room and clean lots.  "
"another possibility is the grease spot photometer  aka bunsen photometer  german wiki page. this can be homemade, you need a piece of paper, some wax or oil, two light sources, a meter stick and for the measurement of solutions also some e.g. cardboard to shield unwanted light. also the darker the room, the better.  the underlying idea is that light intensity from two different sources can be compared  and found to be equal  with a paper with a grease  waxed  spot: the spot will vanish when as much light is transmitted through the spot as reflected around.   if you move a light source to achieve this condition, you can conclude relative intensities from the distance  intensity goes 1 / d2 with d the distance from the respective light source .   here is a youtube video demonstrating this: http://www.youtube.com/watch v sgzdl4qra48    how to measure photometrically  so schematically we have:  o--u---- ----o   ---d---    with light sources o, cuvette u and the spotted paper  . measure distance  d  between equal intensity paper position and the light source with the cuvette.   we have  i  transmitted   sim  frac 1  d 2    next, a calibration series is acquired as usual: blank  which serves as  i 0   and concentrations over the calibration range. almost as usual:    e   - lg  frac i  i 0   sim  varepsilon l c     - lg  frac d 0 2  d 2    b c       lg d   a   b  c      a  and  b  are determined by calibration - i use here  a  instead of  2  lg d 0  because several choices are possible and in general the fitted value should be used rather than the theoretical one since it includes some effects in which practice differs from theory  e.g. differences between   transmission in the grease spot from   reflection outside .  standard addition instead of calibration would be possible as well. "
"smokers are more likely to have certain serious complications from coronavirus than other people, public health england says. it points to early studies in china that indicate smokers with covid-19 are 14 times more likely to develop severe respiratory disease. smoking tobacco or illegal drugs damages the lungs and airways, causing a range of respiratory problems. the coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, placing smokers at greater risk. there is also evidence it suppresses and harms the immune system, with smokers twice as likely to catch pneumonia as non-smokers. smokers are also likely to regularly touch their mouth, increasing their risk of infection. sharing cigarettes or spliffs with others also makes you susceptible to catching coronavirus, which can be transmitted through saliva and via surfaces."
"illness due to covid-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. however, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. it is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the covid-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones.  we can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. first and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings."
" lt  -- /  font definitions  / font-face  font-family: cambria math   panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:1  mso-generic-font-family:roman  mso-font-format:other  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:0 0 0 0 0 0   font-face  font-family:calibri  panose-1:2 15 5 2 2 2 4 3 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-536870145 1073786111 1 0 415 0   font-face  font-family: arial unicode ms   panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 2 2 4  mso-font-charset:0  mso-generic-font-family:auto  mso-font-pitch:variable  mso-font-signature:-134238209 -371195905 63 0 4129279 0   /  style definitions  /p.msonormal, li.msonormal, div.msonormal  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-fareast-language:en-us  p.body, li.body, div.body  mso-style-name:body  mso-style-unhide:no  mso-style-parent:    margin:0cm  margin-bottom:.0001pt  mso-pagination:widow-orphan  font-size:12.0pt  font-family: times new roman   mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   mso-bidi-font-family: arial unicode ms   color:black  border:none  mso-style-textoutline-type:none  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dpiwidth:0pt  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-linecap:flat  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-join:bevel  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-pctmiterlimit:0   mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-dash:solid  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-align:center  mso-style-textoutline-outlinestyle-compound:simple  mso-ansi-language:fr  mso-fareast-language:en-us  text-underline:black  .msochpdefault  mso-style-type:export-only  mso-default-props:yes  font-size:10.0pt  mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt  mso-fareast-font-family: arial unicode ms   border:none  mso-ansi-language:en-us  mso-fareast-language:en-us  .msopapdefault  mso-style-type:export-only   page wordsection1  size:612.0pt 792.0pt  margin:70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt 70.85pt  mso-header-margin:36.0pt  mso-footer-margin:36.0pt  mso-paper-source:0  div.wordsection1  page:wordsection1  -- gt regular physical activity benefits both the body andmind. it can reduce high blood pressure, help manage weight and reduce the riskof heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers. it alsoimproves bone and muscle strength and increases balance, flexibility andfitness. for older people, activities that improve balance help to preventfalls and injuries. for children, regular physical activity helps supporthealthy growth and development and reduce the risk of disease in later life,and through regular activity, children can develop fundamental movement skillsand build social relationships.regular physical activity also improves mental healthand can reduce the risk of depression, cognitive decline and delay the onset ofdementia - and improve overall feelings of wellbeing."
"yes. the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes covid-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low."
"right now, as covid-19 is on-going, they can not do very much to prepare for a hypothetical covid-  . however, once the covid-19 situation has ended, then it would be vital to do a thorough analysis of what worked, and did not work in the covid-19 situation.  this is one of the reasons, why the east-asian countries, such as hong kong or korea have fared so well compared to europe  they could build on first hand experience of the sars and mers outbreaks.  the somewhat sad lesson is that we are smarter only afterwards. any attempts to predict the future, and act accordingly to these predictions is bound to fail at least in part of the cases.  you find plenty of articles in the media, comparing the current, local situation to those in the east asian countries, such as this one from the bbc. whereever, you are from, you probably will be able to find a corresponding article from your local media, at least i have found such articles from german media. "
"masks can also function as an important visual cue, says joseph allen, an assistant professor of exposure and assessment science at harvard university t.h. chan school of public health. they are a  reminder that we need to be taking these precautions and serve as a reminder to people to keep that 6-foot buffer,  he says.  it should be seen as a badge of honor. if i am wearing a mask out in public, it means i am concerned about you, i am concerned about my neighbors, i am concerned about strangers on the chance that i am infectious. i want to do my part in limiting how i might impact you.  klompas agrees -- and says that it can also give the wearer a welcome sense of security.  it feels like you are behind a shield,  he says,  and i think that in itself can be reassuring.  and for the others around you, it is a warning.  it says: watch out. there is a public health crisis right now, there is a virus going around, we need to be on top guard,  says klompas.  i think it can actually be a reinforcer, a reminder of the state of crisis that we face in society.  but he says that masks are not a replacement for all the other steps we need to take right now to protect ourselves from the coronavirus -- especially social distancing and good hand hygiene."
"what are the symptoms  most people get fever and cough, sometimes fatigue or shortness of breath, and recover after about two weeks. about 15  develop severe disease, including pneumonia, chinese scientists reported from 45,000 cases there. symptoms usually start slowly and often worsen as the illness goes on. in a report last week on the first 12 patients in the us, seven were hospitalized  most had underlying health problems and got worse during the second week of illness. in china, slightly more males have been diagnosed with covid-19 than females, which might be because roughly half of chinese men smoke but only 5  of females do, frieden said. children seem to get less sick -- a report on 10 in china found that fevers tended to be milder and they lacked clear signs of pneumonia."
"while much of the attention about who is most vulnerable to covid-19 has centred on the elderly and those with underlying medical conditions,  it can also affect young people.  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/people- under-40-make-up-one-third-of-canada-s-covid-19-cases-1.4872884   according to phac data, people in their 20s were responsible for 12 per cent of all confirmed covid-19 cases in canada as of march 30, and those aged 19 or younger made up 4 per cent of the country is total caseload.  dr. isaac bogoch said that everyone can be infected by the novel coronavirus and there is always a risk that some people will have a more severe infection.  however, he said older people and those with underlying medical conditions still have a greater risk of a severe outcome than younger individuals.   if we take a step back and look at the 30,000-foot view and look at who is more likely to get a severe infection, it is overwhelmingly those over the age of 60 and really, over the age of 80 years old,  he told ctv is your morning on march 20.  bogoch said the most important metric to look at when studying data about severe infections from this virus is death.   if you get infected, you either live or you die, it sounds morbid, but i think that is an extremely important distinction to make and if we look at death, it is overwhelmingly in those over 60 and disproportionately high in those over the age of 80,  he said."
"coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that infect animals and people. in february, the w.h.o. gave official names to both this virus  sars-cov-2, for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2  and the disease it causes  covid-19, for coronavirus disease 2019 . you may have heard it called the  new  or  novel  coronavirus, and those mean just what they sound like: that it is new."
"good question, here are 2  among many  possible answers:    the chinese government seems to manage the stock market directly at times. i.e. there are stories  like the one above  where the governments does not allow funds or brokers to sell. that level of control likely would not happen in the usa.  maybe their central bank stepped in more quickly/strongly. although i suspect a larger part of your answer is in  1 above, than  2 here.   "
"no. the virus that causes covid-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome  sars  in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different. sars was more deadly but much less infectious than covid-19. there have been no outbreaks of sars anywhere in the world since 2003."
"http://www.sciencefocus.com/nature/do-viruses-die/:    strictly speaking, viruses can not die, for the simple reason that they are not alive in the first place. although they contain genetic instructions in the form of dna  or the related molecule, rna , viruses can not thrive independently. instead, they must invade a host organism and hijack its genetic instructions.   http://www.sciencealert.com/how-long-does-coronavirus-last-on-surfaces:    just hanging about in the atmosphere, the effect of factors such as uv light and heat causes the mix of rna, fatty membrane, and protein making up the  viruses  to steadily break down in a few hours  or less/more .   http://www.statnews.com/2020/03/19/coronavirus-survives-on-surfaces-how-to-protect-yourself/  mirror :    viruses covered in  envelopes  have the most trouble surviving outside a living cell. on surfaces, the surrounding light, heat, and dryness break down the envelope, killing the virus.  porous surfaces pull moisture away from viruses that land on them, accelerating the destruction of the envelope.  most rhinoviruses have such envelopes  so do some influenza viruses. norovirus does not, enabling it to last longer in the environment.  "
"the disease can be transmitted from person to person, usually through droplets during sneezing or coughing. to prevent the spread of the virus, the who recommends washing hands regularly, covering the mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, and thoroughly cooking meat and eggs. it also suggests avoiding close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness. more..."
"other countries have closed schools and universities as a social distancing measure, however australia has not yet taken this step. the situation with schools varies state by state. queensland, south australia, western australia, tasmania and northern territory will keep schools open for the children of essential workers but will began to implement pupil-free days in the coming weeks. victoria and act schools are already on break. nsw schools remain open but students are encouraged to stay at home. several schools around the country have closed temporarily after a staff member or student tested positive for the virus. some universities have chosen to close their campuses."
"  how is banning such events constitutional with the freedom of  assembly    the rights created by the first amendment are not absolute. they are subject to reasonable restrictions as to time, place and manner, especially if those restrictions are content neutral.   restrictions narrowly tailored to protect against genuine threats public health and safety fall within the exception of the first amendment even if they are not strictly content neutral, that is commonly described by the rubric that you do not have a right to falsely cry  fire  in a crowded theater  causing a riot that could harm people .   for example, suppose that a rope bridge over a deep gorge can only support the weight of ten people, and three dozen people want to hold a protest there. a regulation that prohibited more than ten people from engaging in the protest would be constitutional.  even then, however, a lack of content neutrality  e.g., restricting punishment to false statements likely to incite a riot  can not also be a lack of ideological neutrality  e.g. restricting punishment to anti-catholic but not anti-jewish statements likely to incite a riot .    if it were a political protest/gathering would this change    generally speaking political protest/gatherings are still subject to content neutral regulations of time, place or manner, and those narrowly tailored to protect genuine threats public health and safety.  so, for example, if there is a genuine covid-19 risk that public health officials are trying to address, and the regulation of gatherings is not viewpoint or content based, it would be upheld as constitutional in the face of a first amendment freedom of assembly limitation.  but, if the regulation applied, for example, only to republican and not democratic party protests or gatherings, which is a viewpoint or content based restriction, it would not survive a first amendment freedom of assembly challenge.  "
"study on mers coronavirus and hcov-229e:  rapidly lost most of the infectivity in fasted-state simulated gastric fluid  fassgf  ph 2.0   but  survived fessgf   fed state, which is less acidic . see figure 3. iow, on empty stomach, the gastric acid rapidly deactivate the mers coronavirus and the 229e coronavirus, but if there is food in the stomach then the virus survives.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5687858/ "
"older adults and people who have serious underlying medical conditions are at highest risk of getting sick from covid-19.  if others in your home are at particularly high risk for severe illness from covid-19, consider extra precautions to separate your child from those people. if you are unable to stay home with your child during school dismissals, carefully consider who might be best positioned to provide childcare. if someone at higher risk for covid-19 will be providing care  older adult, such as a grandparent or someone with a serious underlying medical condition , limit your children is contact with other people. consider postponing visits or trip to see older family members and grandparents. connect virtually or by writing letters and sending via mail.  "
"for your proposed routing, timatic currently says:      transit - australia  au       passengers are not allowed to transit or enter australia.   passengers departing from new zealand with a confirmed onward ticket on the same calendar day to return home are allowed to transit through australia. they must remain airside and must have not been in china  people is rep. , iran, italy or korea  rep.  in the past 14 days.         ...     visa required, except for nationals of germany transiting through brisbane  bne , darwin  drw  or melbourne  mel  with a confirmed onward ticket for a flight to a third country within 8 hours. they must stay in the international transit area of the airport and have documents required for the next destination.       transit - qatar  qa       twov  transit without visa :  visa required, except for passengers with a confirmed onward ticket for a flight to a third country within 24 hours. they must stay in the international transit area of the airport and have documents required for the next destination.    so it should be possible if they can book that itinerary as a single ticket  so that luggage is checked through .  i can not find this itinerary, however i see akl-doh-fra on qatar airways on sunday. "
"market reactions to information are not always timely, proportional, or rational.   we do not know the full impact of our current situation  we are feeling it out.   some people  bulls , believe that the initial dip was an over-reaction, that the government response will prevent further decline, and/or that things will go back to normal pretty quickly, so they are buying the dip. on the other side you have people  bears  that believe the initial reaction was just a start but not enough to price-in the full impact, that the government can not prop up the economy, and/or that this will drag on for a long while, so they are betting on further decline.    the problem with this idea of information being priced-in is that we all know there is a global pandemic, but there are very different opinions about how much that should affect the market.  consider unemployment levels: we have projections about unemployment rate potentially hitting a peak over 30 . meanwhile, the current unemployment rate is 4.4  and projected to hit double digits in april. the only way all of that information could be appropriately priced in is if everyone agreed about the reasonableness of the projections and had the economic prowess to understand the actual impact of those figures.  instead, what happens is that some people will see the actual april unemployment numbers as surprising new information to react to, while others will see it as old information in line with their expectations. add in thousands of other pieces of information about which people have conflicting opinions, and it becomes pretty much impossible to know in advance if that information was all priced in appropriately.  the most recent comparable event is the subprime mortgage crash. many people thought bottom was hit around november 2008 and there was a brief counter-trend rally before actual bottom was hit around march 2009. we do not know at this time if the market has bottomed out yet or not  nor do we know how long recovery could take. "
"no. as each international mass gathering is different, the factors to consider when determining if the event should be cancelled may also differ. any decision to change a planned international gathering should be based on a careful assessment of the risks and how they can be managed, and the level of event planning. the assessment should involve all stakeholders in the event, and in particular the health authorities in the country or community where the event is due to take place. these authorities and stakeholders are in the best position to assess the level of stress the event might place on the local health system and emergency services - and whether this level of stress is acceptable in the current situation. it is who is view that all countries with community transmission should seriously consider postponing or reducing mass gatherings that bring people together and have the potential to amplify disease and support the recommended best practice of physical distancing. any decision will be supported through the use of who tools, in particular the risk assessment for mass gatherings during covid-19. if movement restrictions and further national measures have been established in the country, the who ra does not apply. however, when the process of re-opening/conducting mass gatherings is being considered post movement restrictions, it will be key to ensure any decisions are based on a risk assessment, such as the who mass gatherings covid-19 risk assessment."
"update apr 2: pooled tests are under development now  newspaper in german , the plan is to pool 5 samples and to use the usual amount of each sample  and presumably dilute less  so that sensitivity is not an issue.     in general, pooled tests help in screening situations, that is, when very few samples are positive, so that 10  samples can be pooled and still only a small fraction of pooled samples is positive. they require good sensitivity.   we are not in a screening situation with the current sars-cov-2 testing, and pooling would not help much right now - it would probably not be worth while the effort to develop and implment pooled tests.     long version:   update: deleted newspaper hints that logistics may be the bottleneck:     what is the bottle neck in the testign process    according to kekule  10 min or so into the interview  the  lab machinery  in germany has a capacity of several 100k tests per day, but right now there are shortages in reagents but also e.g. in the swabs for taking samples  so, comparably low tech parts of the test . pooled tests of course need just as many swabs  if not more: false negatives due to the sampling not picking up virus material is a concern, and the usual remedy is to take more swabs.     anything that comes now are my guesses as a professional from a neighbouring field: analytical chemistry . i do not have any first hand experience with pcr.     does the amount of material needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material    i expect the reagent needs to scale  mostly  with the number of performed tests. i also expect the amount of tested material to be the same  prescribed by the method/protocol  for each run. that is, when you pool n samples, you would take only 1/n of material from each  in practice it may be better to pool and then take out 1/n of the pooled sample . update: the test described in the newspaper goes the opposite direction: they take n times the sample material in order to avoid trouble with low sensitivity. in consequence, this cannot be considered a  derived   variety  of the 1-sample tests, it must be newly developed almost from scratch.    does the amount of time needed to test for covid-19 scale rather with the number of performed tests, or with the amount of tested material    again: the tests, mor precisely the number of batches of tests since multiple tests can be processed in parallel.     is the the nucleic acid amplification test still reliable enough, if the virus rna to be detected is dilluded among multiple samples     from here on, we are back inside my professional experience   this i cannot answer since i do not know the typical concentration range of virus rna in the samples of positive cases.   the lowest concentration of virus rna that can reliably be detected is called the limit of detection  lod . in this context, reliably is 19 out of 20 validation samples at that concentration according to the emergency/ shortcut  validation procedure of the fda  i expect other parts of the world to have similar validation procedures right now . the rfda has a page with tests that have this emergency approval  http://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/emergency-situations-medical-devices/emergency-use-authorizations covid19ivd , and the manufacturer information lists the lod.   one would relate the lower end of the typical concentration range to the lod to calculate how many samples could be pooled without the test becoming unreliable.  the linked news article hints that this may actually be a limiting factor. the test under development avoids this problem by using more sample material.    there is another limitation to how many samples one can sensibly pool. the aim of the procedure is to save tests. thus, we need to set up the pooling so that only a small proportion of pooled tests is positive and a large fraction of cases can be  closed  as negative.   here is the fraction of pooled samples that is positive depending on the prevalence   fraction of positive samples and the number of samples that are pooled n:     contours are every 10  points. dashed and dotted lines are the current fractions of positive samples for germany and italy.  from that, we can calculate how many samples we need to run  for every positive pooled sample, additional n tests  and from that the fraction of tests we save compared to testing each sample separately:    contours here are right to left: 0, 25  , 50   and 75    savings .  so, at the current testing situation in germany, pooling 4 samples would allow to save almost 60   of tests. in italy, pooling 3 samples would save less than 15   of tests.  a pooled test would need its own validation and one would also do some additional development to get the required sensitivity  lod  for the desired number of pooled samples, meaning more delay until pooled tests would be available.   in addition, pooled tests alongside the single tests that are anyways needed would mean additional logistic burden in the labs.   i do not think developing a pooled test would be worth while right now, the more so, as other measures would give similar or better relief:  doing only 1 test per household would save about 50   since the average size of a household in germany is 2 without the need of any new test development.  the same is true for further concentrating the tests on the vulnerable/high risk population.   thus, pooled tests may help in the containment phase when they would allow to test a larger number of possible contacts.   update: getting back into containment phase is the aim of the current lockdown.   we would still have high requirements for sensitivity and specificity. this means, pooled tests would have helped most right at the beginning of the epidemic - but they always mean additional r amp d and also additional validation needs to be done  and part of the validation work btw. must be done in every single lab that wants to use the test  since they need to be implemented in addition to the single sample method. this means, they will always be available only after the single sample method is established. "
"  in search for any possible new treatments for covid-19, i am of the understanding that the sars-ncov-2 virus may suffer deterioration at high temperatures and high humidity   if you are referring to the linked question, that is for virus in air on a dry surface. it is a test of how long the virus can survive outside of a host before it is desiccated and destroyed by the environment. it is not relevant to viral particles inside of an organism.    are there any fundamental biological functions that would prevent this possibility    there is little evidence that elevated body temperature has much effect on duration of infection with most common viral diseases. this is why antipyretic drugs are commonly recommended for people with viral infections.  "
"can i go out for a jog in the morning  yes, but only individually"
"the federal government can impose quarantines under the public health service act to prevent the spread of communicable disease into the united states or between states. they are  considered a measure of last resort  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/us/coronavirus-quarantine- questions.html  when there is no other way to stop the spread of a deadly disease. on the state and local level, the laws vary depending on the region. still, the u.s. government does not have the authority to impose a quarantine as sweeping as china, which confined some 70 million people in the largest effort in history. in the u.s., quarantines have been very rare. the last one was in the 1960s against a suspected smallpox outbreak. health warnings are more common, like in 2016 when the c.d.c. advised pregnant women to avoid southern florida during an outbreak of the zika virus."
"    student loans   the department of education has granted a payment waiver of at least 60 days to many people. but it is not necessarily automatic. in general, you have to call your loan servicer to request a waiver and to make sure that your loan is eligible. the waiver does not apply to private student loans. one big private lender, sallie mae, said it is offering suspension of payment for up to three months, with no damage to a borrower is credit. with the stimulus package, there will be  automatic payment suspensions for any student loan  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-stimulus- package-questions-answers.html  held by the federal government until sept. 30. it may be hard to contact many of the loan servicers right now, so check your account online in the coming weeks.   utility bills   some utility providers are offering to stop cutting people off for nonpayment. a number of large internet companies have agreed not to terminate residential or small-business customers who can not pay their bills. exact policies and requirements vary, though, so if you need help, you should call and ask.   housing   there is also a good chance you can delay your mortgage payment if the outbreak has left you short of money. the federal housing finance agency has instructed mortgage servicers to allow borrowers whose mortgages are owned by fannie mae or freddie mac to delay payments. if you rent, the best national resource we have found so far is the search-by-state function on  justshelter.org  http://justshelter.org/community-resources/ . this offers information on local organizations that can provide advice to renters in distress.   loans and credit   many consumer lenders are offering affected customers help if they can not make payments. the american bankers association has a list of lenders here, although the help they are offering varies. some say they will allow borrowers to skip payments  some are offering other accommodations."
"containment  the most important factor is containment:   in the epicenter 60 million people were locked down. so if you can not leave your home you can not infect others nor get infected by others. across the country 780 million people were under travel restrictions. some areas only one family member is allowed to leave the home every 2 days to get supplies. community committees  non existent in most other countries  deliver food and check on condition of those locked down.   today china is changing into  targeted containment  where certain cities with no new cases for five days still have borders closed but allow citizens to now move freely within city borders.  some other considerations:   china is very nimble in setting up a 1,000 bed hospital in a week  16 were setup i believe . china was quick to develop a 15 minute test kit for novel coronavirus 2. this allows infected people to be quickly separated and allows those not infected to continue without undue fear or restrictions on work, school or family relations. by comparison us refused  for a week  to test people in a deadly infected washington state nursing home where at least 50 staff in inmates, um er residents, are showing symptoms. ct scans. when labs could no longer keep up to number of test samples, hospitals in china resorted to cat scans of the lungs as reported february 13th. there have been no reports in the media if us hospitals have ct scanning machines that doctors know how to read to classify a patient as  presumptive positive . there was mild upheaval when china included ct scan cases in their daily reports.     what  we  started doing march 8, 2020 similar to china  you do not say who  we  are but i presume it is eu / north america. from that point of view italy has just implemented a policy a little less strict than china today. the daily link contents will change tomorrow so i will include march 8, 2020  gmt  link contents here:    italy emergency measures    16 days after the beginning of the outbreak, the italian government  took decree today to take exceptional measures to contain about 16  million italians living in 14 provinces in the north of the country,  as well as restrictive measures covering the whole country.  source     northern italy under lockdown     ... snip original march 8, 2020 post shortened on march 12, 2020...       sports competitions are suspended with some exceptions     had the national restrictions been implimented a fortnight ago the lockdown may have been less severe today  march 8, 2020 .   also note like china, italy has been using the 15 minute test kit presumably backed up by the two to five day lab testing which they say is more accurate.    march 9, 2020 update  today italy expanded the  lockdown  to the entire nation of 60 million people. still it is not as targeted a restriction as china implemented against wuhan and the province it was in  circles of protection like linux kernel and user space tools .  today israel announced all people coming into the country must undergo 14 day quarantine. this would include all americans who historically have been the biggest supporters and creators of israel.  note israel is actions go above and beyond the steps china has taken. it more akin to the steps some regions took during the spanish flu of 1918. sorry direct link not available i recall researching this a few days / week ago.  although israel is using a stronger tactic than which china took two things have to be considered:   people were not swarming to get to china in february 2020 with usa declaring it persona non-grata in nation terms.  benjamin netenyahu is facing american style impeachment and might be using people and this growing pandemic as a  human shield  of sorts from his personal problems.   i think the 15 minute field test kit which takes blood sample was what made china successful but only they can answer that and the msm i have access to is not asking those questions to seek answers. currently schools are closing down in usa and other western countries because someone came back from an infected country without giving them a 15 minute field blood test first.    march 10, 2020 update  correction to yesterday  i read in haeratz  sp   newspaper online today that netenyahu exempted israeli is returning from america from the 14 day quarantine. i do not believe any science backs up the fact returning from a special mission to america exempts one from the coronavirus.  lab tests can fail too  alarmingly in japan someone infected on the princess cruise ship and then cleared for release was still infected because 15 minute blood test was not done, just the swab lab test. note the link is only valid for 24 hours then you have to scroll to march 10:    china developed the 15 minute field test kit on january 31, 2020 and an american company claims to have developed the same 15 minute field test kit. both are banned by the american cdc though because it measures those who have antibodies fighting the coronavirus  stage 1  and antibodies that have defeated the coronavirus  stage 2 . it does not test for the coronavirus itself.  if you know who has defeated the coronavirus and have antibodies they are the safest people to have assisting the at risk segment of the population. china nor any other country has said they are doing this though.  screening everyone crossing the land/air/sea border with a 15 minute test would go a long way to slowing down the virus spread. i hope the reason for not using the 15 minute test is not because there is not enough profit in it for labs. remember to date  our  labs have mostly test people who do not have the virus. with the 15 minute test kit they would be testing people who 90  odds do have the virus.  new rochelle new york state takes a page from china is play book  tomorrow the army is moving into new york according to aljazeera tv to seal off the city and not let anyone leave. plus they will distribute food to those in quarantine which mimics what china is community committees were doing as posted earlier.  this disease for america and eu is unique in that the  jet-setters  / wealthy like the rich northern region of italy  initial ground zero  are the global spreaders of the disease  besides local transmission which takes of a week or two later .  the downfall of this lockdown in new york state is it is announced two days before it takes effect giving infected people time to flee and infect others. had those fleeing been tested it would have mitigated / reduced the chances of virus spread.  to mask or not to mask that is the question.  coronavirus: put a surgical mask on, hong kong welfare chief law chi-kwong told  a survey of nurses in america recently revealed many of them were never trained on how to put on ppe yet this is construction worker safety 101  at least it was when i was working in construction and not warehousing .  green/yellow/red barcodes  china is using colour coded identification for people in wuhan  ground zero  according to aljazeera just now. green   good to go, yellow   warning, red   no go. the government controls colour code assignments it was not reported how the colour codes are derived but it might be beneficial for other nations  red-tape departments to learn.    march 11, 2020 update  today italy changed the lock-down to a shutdown:    italy closes all commercial activities, offices, cafes, shops. only  transportation, pharmacies, groceries will remain open   this sounds a lot like what china did for wuhan and surrounding area.  today the who  world health organization  declared the new coronavirus  circa 2019  a global pandemic in hopes it will spur  our  governments to take more aggressive measures to contain the virus. in other words to be more like china which is what the op is asking above.  usa announces all flights from europe will be cancelled  effective friday march 13th the usa will ban all flights from europe. the more important thing would be to track down all people who arrived from europe over the last 14 days and test them. flights from uk are still allowed but no word if chunnel will be closed. uk has not announced a vote for cvexit.    march 12, 2020 update  canada is prime minister  the wife of the prime minister of canada is suspected of being infected from in the united kingdom on a speaking engagement  a high risk adventure imo :    in a press release on thursday, the prime minister is office said she  has received a test for the new coronavirus after her symptoms emerged  last night following her return from a trip to the u.k., where she had  been doing speaking engagements.    while the prime minister has no symptoms, he is self-isolating until  her test results are back.     the doctor is advice to the prime minister is to continue daily  activities while self-monitoring, given he is exhibiting no symptoms  himself. however, out of an abundance of caution, the prime minister  is opting to self-isolate and work from home until receiving sophie is  results,  the release said.   the prime minister is doctor gave the wrong advise. at my workplace yesterday they announced a coworker was being tested  4 days for results  and is self isolate because his wife works with a doctor who had tested positive. so we have two health  professionals  the one in ottawa canada playing fast  amp  loose, the one in edmonton canada erring on the side of caution.  everyone at work is worrying now. i wish we had the 15 minute field test kit so we can quickly separate the  suspected wheat  from the  suspected chaff . the good news is unlike the usa we can do tests on possible cases here in edmonton canada. tom hanks is also thankful today he could be tested in positive australia and was not in the usa would they would refuse to test him.  china is a surveillance state which can control social media and msm for sure. canada and usa could utilize the anti-terrorism network built a decade ago including no-fly lists and turn it into a  anti-coronavirus  network. another example of what  we  could be doing more like china using existing computer databases and surveillance tracking resources.  what alberta announced today  edmonton -- as part of a new aggressive measure to fight the coronavirus pandemic, alberta is cancelling all large gatherings and advising against international travel. furthermore the link states:    the province is advising albertans against travelling  internationally.     given the rapid spread of this virus, it is no longer possible to  assess health risks for the duration of the trip,  hinshaw said.    she is also recommending all albertans currently outside of canada to  self-isolate for 14 days after their trip.    hinshaw said the risk of contracting coronavirus in alberta has not  changed in the past 24 hours, but is concerned that international  travellers will continue to bring the disease into the province.   with only 23 confirmed cases alberta is taking early steps to contain the virus without overreacting. the next steps  if cases increase  would be to close beauty parlours, bars and restaurants but i am biased as i never frequent such establishments. also i would stop sending fire fighters to non-essential traffic accidents and paramedic responses to save them for well, fighting fires. random thought would be for alberta to have disposable surgical gloves at self-serve gas stations for patrons to don before grasping the nozzle to fill up the tank.  another possible step would be to begin skype  tvoip  talks with canadian military which has a base close to edmonton with feasibility of  drafting  canadian troops living there. the purpose is for embedding troops with edmonton peace officers and edmonton police in a combined  counter-coronavirus-force  under a central command and control.  why troops  it was what my first bus driver after work  i take four buses home after work and am concerned they will shut down in two to three weeks and i will have to buy a bicycle  said today:  i hope the banks do not run out of money. this led to a long explanation about fractional reserve banking, gold standard, four federal reserve central banks going bankrupt, currency generated digitally and how not enough real money exists. anyway more fire power is preferable to not enough when you need it. besides even if heavy weaponry is not needed you can always call it a drill and lets face it nato military does not see much  action  anyway and will enjoy the  call to arms  if nothing else.  staying on topic, there are no reports i have read that china took these steps and used the military but i  imagine  they would have.    march 14, 2020 update  getting downvotes so might have to end these  save the world who does not care q amp a  updates.  today italy announced:    italy is health system is overwhelmed:       we are close to the point of no return for intensive care beds in lombardy. we have 15 to 20 intensive care beds left. with 85 new  people entering icu every day and 2 or 3 leaving, we are close to the  point of no return.  there are no more ambulances  - lombardy welfare  councilor gallera added -  and therefore someone will have to wait  late in the evening.   source  732 patients are currently treated in  intensive care in lombardy, and 76 new deaths were reported in the  region today.  in bergamo,  deaths have quintupled from a week ago. there is a burial every half hour  said councilor for cemetery services giacomo  angeloni.  there are many elderly people at home with breathing  difficulties. they are not hospitalized because the hospitals are  full  said the mayor of alzano lombardo carmelo bertocchi.     what would china do   hard to say their society is different. what should italy do  easier to say if they are like canada.  temporarily suspend medical laws. commandeer white crew cab pickup trucks from dealers at cost plus twenty. paint red crosses on left and right. staff with four able-bodied young men. put a mattress in the box.  take that 80 person call center designed to rip off seniors with calls to support the fireman is burn unit and police feed the children fund. have them call people over 65 twice a day. if they do not answer send aforementioned four men in a pick up truck.  a week ago china would have build 1,000 bed hospitals that take a week to complete. nato countries should do the same a week before where italy is today. scrap white collar surveyors, architects and engineers. send in the blue collar labourers, concrete finishers, electricians, plumbers, skid steer operators, truck drivers, crane operators, foremen and carpenters with blue prints that china used.  spain is lockdown today should have exempted warehousing and transportation of food and drugs workers. they will think of that tomorrow.  president trump is test announced today seems like  fake news  if the test only works when upper respiratory tract is infected when a nasal swab is taken. however the kind of test taken was not announced.  china web guru is donated 500,000 test kits to usa today. no word if 100 labs and 1,000 lab workers are included to analyze test results...  i visited the world is second largest mall today. i noticed the indoor hockey rink was closed  like the nhl  i could fix that in a week i think   and replaced with a bead trinket / fake rock sales flea market. one vendor had a dry cough and another was wearing surgical gloves.  there was a sign outside the bathroom hallway from alberta health advising people how to wash hands. at galaxy land i saw a few amusement ride employees cleaning surfaces. so if they close all the schools here they end up in galaxy land   schools should stay open because teachers know their students better than a random ride attendant. however reinstate the old days where students queue when the first bell rings. then forehead point and shoot temperature checks will be done.  allergy season is arriving and probably 10  of the population is effected with running nose and sneezing. they should get a card or something to alleviate the fears of others on the bus or airplane.  people under 30 getting and recovering from bsc should be verified and coveted. being over 50 i am not really scared but i am worried i will infect that elderly man hobbling down the street today at -20c with his cane. my bus may be no safer for him than ets dats. which reminds me should not they be cleaning the buses here   callous individuals surround us and say  they are old  lets kill them all with the virus. forward thinkers will realize they will be old too someday. what would china do  i think they would  respect their elders .  gee jing ping  xi jingping  wore a mask and sat meters away from other officials when he announced wuhan  think washington dc  and wubie province  think washington state  had overcome the virus  we do not know that is true yet .  on the other hand trump and officials wore no ppe and all touched the mic in some sort of  speaking is more important than reality  press conference yesterday  friday the 13th .  if someone on the bus wears a mask do not freak out. they may be trying to protect you or chances are they are just scared. do not pick on them.  i have no idea if all of this transpired in china but their culture is different than nato is and we must adapt because the end results are what count. life, liberty and freedom can be mutually exclusive. for a few months you will have to give up freedom to save life. china did do that and appears to have succeeded today. what will history say about you     march 16, 2020 update  today canada announced closing borders to all foreign nationals except us citizens. what would china do    about two weeks ago the border to washington state would have been sealed off. because people there flow into b.c. the alberta / bc border would have been sealed off.   what to do today to mimic china    100 million people live beside the us / canada border. they like to make day trips to mimic currency arbitrage and buy goods cheaper in other country. this traffic should be shut down. canadian health care is free, americans in past have utilized that system, that should be shut down. everyone crossing border by land should be subject to 5 second forehead temperature check with  60 gun. those with fever must seek medical attention. some border crossing like edmundston new brunswick and madawaska, me, united states are like their own little country. they can manage their own laws and have to worry about keeping outsiders out of both towns.   china succeeded at first locking down wuhan city and then hubie province. italy tried that and failed. canada / us appears headed for even bigger failure thinking it will save the economy. perhaps it will in the short term but more long term planning is still needed:   airlines will ask for bailouts. tell them to go bankrupt and create new startups in a couple of years. edmonton schools are closing for six months. send teachers out to work for four months even if it is sanitizing buses. after all you are making parents leave work to child care and still expect them to pay 12 months of school taxes right  it is proposed to pay people unemployment.  800 every two weeks might be fine for 80  of the population but an airline pilot can not live on that if his mortgage and car payments are more than that per month. do not give the money to company ceos that lay off all the workers in order to support stock price. accept the fact great depression can be approaching and learn from those mistakes. people to plan to fail, they fail to plan - like with usa test kits. communism at  20/hour is better than capitalism with chance for  200/hr. when reality is  0/hr. no word if china will revert back to communism but their journey is shorter than canada is would be and especially america is. my bus driver was in a state of shock an hour ago as she was told tomorrow buses would be running on saturday schedule which means that bus would not be running. the city bus website had no information on this. do not make such knee-jerk reactions wait a week even if buses are 25  of capacity before making such announcements. city of edmonton website said one employee returning from vacation tested positive but it was not related to recreational facility or other services closing today. makes me think it is swimming pool and wonders why they refuse to say  border closing by canada and saying 14 self-isolation for all arriving  except us citizens who are immune to sars 2.0 apparently  me they are math challenged. worldometers.com states some claim incubation period of 2 to 14 days with 5.2 days mean time which is what they are getting 14 from. others say 0 to 28 days but that is not the point. they should have said if you are arrived from italy, egypt, france, germany, washington state, cruise ship or blah blah 13 days ago then self isolate for 1 day, if 12 days ago then self isolate for 2 days, etc etc up to today arrivals isolate for 14 days. no mention if doctors will be trained how to read ct scan of lungs. no mention if blood test to measure sars 2.0 anti-bodies will be done. criminal negligence almost not learning what china learned and shared with the world. also consider giving bus drivers temperature guns so i can get my temperature checked twice a day too and self-isolate if necessary. then call dispatch for mini-bus making circles picking feverish people up to pick them up. travel by planes offer and border crossings offer great chances to take 5 second temperature check but you need to think out of the box sometimes. research a few weeks ago revealed only 100 icu beds in edmonton and ventilators can not be ordered over night but temperature guns can be ordered over night... they warned us weeks ago to get 14 day supply and i did. today doug ford of ontario told people to stop buying and  hoarding . make up your mind...   final thoughts for what china would do   they would lift sanctions against the people of syria and iran who suffered enough already in usa bid to cause social unrest due to mass human suffering.  indeed sanctions against iran and syria in the first place, china would have voted down if such a measure was introduced in the united nations security council. we can only imagine how decapitated the hospitals in northern parts of syria are now with white helmets running amok to make oscar award winning videos backed by the guns of isis. witnessing the lies of test kits and extrapolating to other lies like white helmets things begin to make sense. would you like a cup of karma with your reality check   crisis can be an opportunity for change and we can watch how china handles it and hopefully treat them as a three month indication to the future of covidi-9.  rt reported that china sent medical experts and supplies to italy after the eu denied support.  edmonton closed schools today but high school kids were still traveling in buses and associating in groups. it does little good to close schools and still allow kids to associate. china locked down homes and anyone traveling had to produce national id cards. there are no national id cards in canada, my only cards are a debit card and library card  closed in edmonton as of today . i also carry a bus pass which might have limited value starting tomorrow...  op is valid question what did china do is almost totally ignored by the media here whilst usa tries to steal vaccines from other nations to make a fast buck for trump. lets make this clear if and when a vaccine is create dit belongs to bsc  bat sourced coronavirus  owner in china who gives it away to the world for free. no patents. no arguments. that said sars 1.0 vaccine was 13 years in the making before being scrapped in 2016. the world has to stop focusing on maybe is and deal with reality that changes by the hour and is unique to every region and the resources they have in play.  this reminds me of inventory control training at work where last week he had to reverse adjustments to stock so this week he has to do the same thing for a different sku. wrong. it is on a case by case basis and every case is different. open your universities 24/7 to develop a vaccine and analyze all those drive through test samples sure. closing them is about the worst thing you could have done with available resources...  where are the flight manifests of everyone who arrived from italy, germany and the netherlands over the last 30 days  were they given to the city of edmonton police  real judges have subpoena powers. it is great you closed bs family court with he-said she-said soap opera now lets get the real judges and real law enforcement working. politicians with silver spoons including trudeau  amp  trump have no idea of how the real world works.  china and korea  both republic and democratic sides  seem to have their act together. as does new zealand one of the  five eyes  which seems to have had their eye open. putin and netenyahu seem more concerned with political extensions. trump saw a picture of him photo-shopped image playing the violin and tweeted he likes it whilst completely oblivious to the reference  nero fiddled while rome burned . the media is devoting too much attention to politicians and not doing investigative journalism. four words  fifteen minute blood test. since you have ten fingers three more  border temperature checks.  what would china do   i imagine by now they would have tracked down all the people that have been to  life care   oxymoron  nursing home in washington usa and lynn valley nursing home in north vancouver, canada  been there seen that . no word on if usa and canada have done that yet     also no word from investigative journalists interviewing  health care professionals  on if they travel between nursing homes because they are  specialists    finally on saturday march 14, 2020 apple closed all it is stores outside of china and reopened them inside china. i visited west edmonton mall and sure enough the store was closed with 4 blue t-shirt clad employees outside closed doors and i said  so it is true   what tim cook said . investigative journalists be asking themselves what tech companies knew before their governments did. look how facebook and google closed down events a week or fortnight before your governments did. ask yourself the 5w is and sometimes how     march 17, 2020  happy st. patrick is day. plans to go out tonight got cancelled because alberta declared a state of emergency.  guy at work was sent home for coughing because  it is not safe . unemployment will cover a percentage of his wage if he gets tested positive for covid-19 but you can not see a doctor if you are coughing. viscous circle / catch 22.  usa announce 1 trillion in  juice  for the economy. i used my  big number calculator  and it tells me  1t / 300m    3k. that will tie an average person over for a month.  some or many people will be traumatized after a few months of cabin fever and never fly again, take a cruise again or trust a stranger again. a crime wave unknown in recent memory could sweep across nato countries of diversity.  hit 30k on this answer :  "
"if the family member does not need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to  guidelines issued by the c.d.c. in february.  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/guidance-prevent- spread.html  if there is space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom to minimize contact with healthy family members. any shared spaces should have good airflow, such as an open window or an air conditioner, and you should not allow any visitors except for those who need to be in the house. your family member should wear a face mask when he or she is around others, and if he or she can not because of difficulty breathing, you should wear a mask. make sure not to share any dishes or other household items with your sick family member and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. do not forget to wash your hands frequently."
"can i visit my neighbourhood elderly who stays alone  compassion is a medicine but you can put them at risk, so it is best to interact over video calls and not visit them."
"there may be a chance some blood types have a higher risk of getting a serious dose of covid-19 than others, a small early study suggests.  researchers assessed 2,173 coronavirus hospital patients in shenzhen and wuhan in china, where the outbreak originated.  they found patients with a blood group types were more likely to have been hospitalised than average, while those with an o blood group type were less likely.  in the local population, 32  had a type a blood group, compared with 38  of those in hospital. meanwhile, 34  of residents had type 0 blood, compared with 26  in hospital.  however, this study has not yet been peer reviewed and only covered a small area, so these links may be coincidental. everyone should be doing all they can to avoid catching the virus and passing it on to others, regardless of their blood type."
"being a postdoc is a job. you are not a slave for academia, nor is your reasearch so important  no offense  that you have to continue it no matter what happens to your life.  nobody is research is.    you are a professional and should act as such. there is nothing to be guilty about. any reasonable person knows and understands that there are reasons which end one is participation in a project even if there is no  outcome  of the project. probably your supervisor would feel more guilty if you feel the need to stay just because of them.  i do not mean to be harsh -- it is only human to feel guilty about such things. what would you do if your were the supervisor  talk about your feelings with your friends -- emotional questions like this are better discussed with trusted people than on the internet.   just for completeness, given the recent situation: if you were an absolute key person in the research of coronavirus and countermeasures, maybe it could be argued that you should stay until you transferred all your knowledge. "
"environmental cleaning in healthcare facilities or homes housing patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-ncov infection should use disinfectants that are active against enveloped viruses, such as 2019-ncov and other coronaviruses. there are many disinfectants, including commonly used hospital disinfectants, that are active against enveloped viruses. currently who recommendations include the use of:70  ethyl alcohol to disinfect reusable dedicated equipment  e.g., thermometers  between usessodium hypochlorite at 0.5   equivalent 5000ppm  for disinfection of frequently touched surfaces in homes or healthcare facilitiesclick here for the guidance on clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when novel coronavirus  ncov  infection is suspected.click here for the guidance on infection prevention and control during health care when novel coronavirus  ncov  infection is suspected.more information about environmental cleaning can be found here."
there has been at least one phylogenetic study of 48 near complete samples of the sars-cov-2 virus.    and a more up to date link at genomic epidemiology of novel coronavirus  http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08802 
"yes. but only if you use the mask properly and do not touch it with your hands afterward. those droplets from a cough or sneeze would hit your mask instead of your mouth and nose -- good news. but the next step is to take the mask off by the ear bands and either wash or discard it -- without touching the front of it.  that is what i see all the time,  says griffin.  that is why in the studies, masks fail -- people do not use them  correctly . they touch the front of it. they adjust it. they push it down somehow to get their nose stuck out.  if you touch the front of the mask, whatever that person coughed or sneezed on it is now on your hands. as this video from the world health organization shows, you should take off your mask by removing the elastics or straps from behind your ears. do not touch the front, and keep the mask away from your face. one other thing: ideally you would have eye protection, too, to keep that stranger is sneeze from getting in. glasses and sunglasses are not perfect but can help."
"i was just reading a post by a frequent traveler on a private travel forum  so unfortunately i can not link it here . they are a us citizen  with global entry, known traveler etc.  who traveled to china in early january  and returned to the us then . when returning recently from another trip  to a different country  they were flagged and questioned by cdc about the trip to china in jan, even though this trip was unrelated. they were told to expect to be questioned every time they re-enter the us now until the virus threat dies down. from their description it sounds like they were sent by cbp immigration officer to meet with someone from cdc, and then were sent back through to immigration  a matter of minutes to maybe an hour, although they do not specify  - they were able to easily proceed to connecting flights without issue.  so i would say that yes you should both prepare to be questioned over your travel to china when re-entering the us. nothing to do with being chinese citizen, more to do with the questions for anyone who has been to china recently. "
"  electron micrographs of negative-stained 2019-ncov particles were generally spherical with some pleomorphism  figure 3 . diameter varied from about 60 to 140 nm. virus particles had quite distinctive spikes, about 9 to 12 nm, and gave virions the appearance of a solar corona.   --a novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in china, 2019  figure 3 from that article:   "
"so i found this information regarding humidity from an article by mit on corona:  1  high humidity leads to condensation of sneezing cough saliva particles sooner, so it does not spread to farther distance  2  low humidity leads to less condensation and higher range of movement of saliva particle, hence more spread area.  apparently it has to do with physics and range of infection not on survivability. "
severity typically means how much impact the illness or condition has on your body is function. you should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.
"well, that is important to understand, and we do not have a complete picture yet of which underlying medical problems were present in how many of these younger people. but it is worth noting - an analysis from italy shows that about 99  of the people who have died in italy from the virus had at least one underlying illness or condition such as heart disease, a history of stroke, diabetes. so these certainly seem to increase the risk of death or serious illness."
you might want to have a look at this kaggle initiative and this github repository with south korea data 
federal student loan borrowers would get a reprieve from payments until october and any interest that would have accrued during that period would be waived.  the agreement also allows students to keep any unspent money from pell grants or student loans and prevents students who have to leave school due to the pandemic from losing eligibility for future pell grants.  i should also note the bill explicitly allows colleges and universities to pay students for work-study programs even if they are unable to work.
"experts say it is due to cuts in federal funding for public health and problems with early testing.   problems with public health infrastructure two years ago, the cdc stopped funding epidemic prevention activities in 39 countries, including china. this happened because the trump administration refused to allocate money to a program that started during the 2014 ebola outbreak.   former cdc director dr. tom frieden warned that move  would significantly increase the chance an epidemic will spread without our knowledge and endanger lives in our country and around the world.   problems with the testing malfunctions, shortages and delays in availability have all contributed to the slowdown.   in the first few weeks of the outbreak in the us, the cdc was the only facility in the country that could confirm test results -- even though a world health organization test became available around the same time.   some test kits that were sent around the country were flawed -- a move that put the us behind about  four to five weeks,  says dr. rob davidson, executive director of the committee to protect medicare."
"no, although scientists around the world have been racing to develop one. both china and the united states have begun clinical trials. it will still be some time before a vaccine is ready for mass production, however, with the us  national institutes of health saying that its clinical trial process could take up to 14 months. there are a number of antiviral treatments and vaccine trials underway. more..."
"there are few data on the clinical presentation of covid-19 in specific populations, such as children and pregnant women 13  but findings from a small published study suggest that there is currently no evidence for intrauterine infection caused by vertical transmission in women who develop covid-19 pneumonia in late pregnancy 14 . although no vertical transmission has been documented, transmission after birth via contact with infectious respiratory secretions is a concern. infants born to mothers with suspected, probable, or confirmed covid-19 should be fed according to standard infant feeding guidelines 15 , while applying necessary precautions for infection prevention and control  ipc . as with all confirmed or suspected covid-19 cases, symptomatic mothers who are breastfeeding or practicing skin-to-skin contact or kangaroo mother care should practice respiratory hygiene, including during feeding  for example, use of a medical mask when near a child if the mother has respiratory symptoms , perform hand hygiene before and after contact with the child, and routinely clean and disinfect surfaces with which the symptomatic mother has been in contact 16 . q a on covid-19, pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding"
"even the most cautious models right now models the virus to be contained towards the end of may.  give that you then have a few more months until august i would say this is not so much of a worry for you if you are a normal middle age person with no prior heart or respiratory conditions and even so in august the risk should be minimal.  i am currently in the middle of it all in mainland china, and with common sense and hygiene i am not at all worried about this virus.  follow the recommendations, do not spend in needed time in public places etc and things are totally fine.  so keep up to date with the news but for august timeframes i would not worry to much. "
"i cannot make medical recommendations, since i am not a vet, but as pet-owner during covid-19 pandemic lockdown i suggest you call your vet is office. i was able to get a routine prescription over the telephone from my vet. my cat had been seen at the clinic last fall. since he is still growing, i had to weigh him on the bathroom scales so the vet could prescribe the right doze. another time, i called for medical advice that the person at the front desk was able to answer.   all this makes me think it might be worth giving your vet is office a call to ask for advice, since the vet seems to know your cat.  "
"the virus that causes covid-19 is mainly transmitted through droplets generated when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or speaks. these droplets are too heavy to hang in the air. they quickly fall on floors or surfaces. you can be infected by breathing in the virus if you are within 1 metre of a person who has covid-19, or by touching a contaminated surface and then touching your eyes, nose or mouth before washing your hands."
"let is appreciate the learning curve. the problem with all of those historical names is that they created sharp spikes in prejudice, social ostracism, and violence against the indicated groups, and still create issues today as seen here with covid-19. it is true that the first identified cases of covid-19 occurred in wuhan china, but this does not imply that people of chinese descent -- or even people recently emigrated from china -- are vectors for the disease, or in any way responsible for the problems that the disease causes. but in the minds of an unfortunate number of ignorant people, the mere association of the disease with chinese heritage can produce verbal and physical assaults, and/or other social pressures that can prevent chinese people in any walk of life from getting access to necessities or essential services.   trump is very public insistence on calling this the  chinese virus , backed by his status as president, is guaranteed to significantly increase acts of discrimination and assault on people of asian descent  whether or not they are specifically chinese . it guarantees this merely by giving an authoritative affirmation to the most panicked, emotional, and ignorant portion of our society that those  chinese  are in some way responsible for the spread of covid-19.  no doubt trump does this intentionally. trump thrives on the panicked, angry ignorance of others  that emotional state he knows how to manipulate to his own profit. and while he himself may not be concerned with the secondary impact of increased violence against people of asian descent, people of asian descent have a good deal to worry about.  a president ought to have the presence of mind not to inflame racial tensions in a situation where tensions are already running exceedingly high. even if we wanted to argue that there is nothing terribly wrong with the phrasing in and of itself -- that it is just a poor choice of words by a man whom no one considers to be eloquent, perhaps -- misstatements by someone who is  ostensibly  the leader of the free world have significant consequences. if even one asian american gets attacked because of someone emboldened by trump is poor word choice, that is blood on trump is hands. "
"while we are still learning about how covid-2019 affects people, older persons and persons with pre-existing medical conditions  such as high blood pressure, heart disease, lung disease, cancer or diabetes  appear to develop serious illness more often than others."
"the information you show is meaningless unless it is also accompanied by the number of tests performed. if the cdc tested 2 people and got two positive results, that does not tell us anything at all about the actual rate of infection. and, indeed, the cdc has been testing a shockingly low number of cases:         data during this period are incomplete because of the lag in time between when specimens are accessioned, testing is performed, and results are reported.    image source   the last day they give data for, 2020-03-15, includes 0 samples from the cdc and 4 samples from other public health labs. since only 4 samples are represented in the chart, of course we see a drop in cases, but that is because they are based on only 4 tests. as more tests for those dates and subsequent dates are reported, the numbers will change.  date collected cdc labs us public health labs 3/12 75   2302   3/13 0   1511   3/14 0   165   3/15 0   4     as you can see in the table above  from the same source as the graph , the past few days have seen almost no tests are being included in this analysis either from the cdc or elsewhere, so any drop in cases is completely meaningless.  "
"there are apps to help you distinguish covid-19 versus other diseases so in your question your mention a runny nose which is a rare or infrequent manifestation of covid-19.  shortness of breath is a more advanced symptom than cough whereas in asthma shortness of breath is usual.  furthermore shortness of breath in asthma is due to reversible narrowing of small airways so that should respond to usual bronchodilator medication. but the shortness of breath in covid-19 is at the alveolar level beyond the small airways and will not be helped by bronchodilator therapy.  in short, if an asthma patient has shortness of breath, fever, and cough where the shortness of breath does not respond to bronchodilator therapy, then in the context of the current covid-19 pandemic there is a high probability that this is covid-19 disease. "
"the cdc recently changed its guidance on wearing face masks as more studies about asymptomatic spread pile up.  now, the cdc  recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain  e.g., grocery stores and pharmacies .   but there are several important caveats and key points:     the public should not buy surgical masks or n95 respirator masks. those are desperately needed by health care workers who are in close contact with coronavirus patients every day.   instead, make your own cloth mask -- it is easy, and you do not have to sew. us surgeon general jerome adams shows how to make face masks with just a t-shirt and rubber bands in this cdc video. you can also use a bandana and a coffee filter.   do not be fooled: the main benefit of wearing masks in public is not to protect you from getting sick. rather, it is to protect others from yourself if you are sick or you are an asymptomatic carrier.  this is more for people who might be infected and do not know it, and to try and lower the likelihood that they will spread this to somebody else,  cnn chief medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta said. the cdc agreed.  you can definitely still get coronavirus even if you wear a mask. the virus can stay alive on surfaces for up to 3 days, and it is easy to touch your face whenever you are not wearing a mask. also, people often adjust face masks frequently, leading to more touching of the face -- a common way that coronavirus spreads.  it is important to wash your cloth mask after every use. here is how.   wearing cloth masks is just  an additional, voluntary public health measure,  the cdc said. to protect yourself from getting coronavirus, it is critical to stay 6 feet away from others, wash your hands frequently for at least 20 seconds each time, and stop touching your face."
"very little, practically speaking.  from the who:     describing the situation as a pandemic does not change who is assessment of the threat posed by this  coronavirus. it does not change what who is doing, and it does not change what countries should do -   drtedros   as discussed in this q amp a, the definition of  pandemic  is fairly arbitrary. it does identify this virus, both in the present day and in history, as particularly significant, but there is nothing magical that changes with this definition from a political  or epidemiological  perspective, and there appear to be no particular political consequences of the definition from the who is perspective.  that is, there are no special funds or protocols that are activated by declaring a  pandemic  the way you might expect for various  declarations of emergency , which often activate laws that change regulations and procedures during the emergency and may allow for release of funds marked for that purpose.  from the content of the announcement, it seems like the who is primary goal in making this declaration is to reiterate the severity of the situation rather than to mark any particular milestone or to alter any guidance or recommendations. "
"what most of your quotes are based on is this general consensus reached by the federal and state governments on how to proceed. the actually legal implementation happens on the state level in form of decrees. therefore, the quoted texts are not to be taken as legal text, but human-readable1. in particular they are not to be taken painstakingly literal, but context and common sense may be applied2.  the actual decrees are much more specific and clear. for example, let is take the decree for northrhine-westphalia  translation mine :    ss 11 veranstaltungen, versammlungen, gottesdienste, beerdigungen     1  veranstaltungen und versammlungen sind untersagt. ausgenommen sind  ...     ss 12 ansammlungen, aufenthalt im offentlichen raum     1  zusammenkunfte und ansammlungen in der offentlichkeit von mehr als 2 personen sind untersagt. ausgenommen sind  ...         ss 11 events, gatherings, religious services, funerals     1  events and gatherings are forbidden. exempt are  ...     ss 12 gatherings and presence in public space     1  congregations and gatherings of more than two persons in public are forbidden. exempt from this are  ...    most of this is clearly about in-person meetings. the only exception is the term  veranstaltung   event , which could be construed to cover online events. however, in other laws using this term, it clearly refers to in-person events. for example parts of this law governing the number of toilets available at an event do not make any sense for online events.  i see nothing in the decree that would forbid online celebrations. in fact celebrations are not mentioned at all  and are covered by more general terms in the degree, as far as they are in-person .     1 to be fair, the actual legal texts are not that bad in terms in human readability either. 2 mind that i do not wish to accuse you of lacking common sense here. after all the consensus dissonating with your common sense made you ask this question.  "
"  worst case they get 0   back, but that does not mean that they lost money since credit was created out of thin air so even if every credit defaults they still will not loose any money and anything they get back is pure profit.   obviously if a bank never lost money by not getting paid back they would make loans all day long, even ones they knew they would not get paid back on.  but the fact of the matter is, a bank is profits are based on how much they actually make on the loan beyond the cost of the loan itself. the cost of the loan includes the principle which must be paid back. what you refer to as being created  out of thin air  does not mean that money is being created from nothing, it is referring to the fact that the same money can be loaned out multiple times, effectively creating what appears to be actual money several times in excess of the actual amount of money floating around.  another way of looking at it is that a bank generally is not lending its own money. they get the money from other sources and lend it out at higher rates than they pay, and from the excess the pay their expenses and hopefully have some profits left over. so if you put  100 in an account at the bank, the bank can lend that  100 out and earn interest on the money, but at the end of the day, they still owe you  100 on demand whenever you ask for it. the  created out of thin air  comes from the fact that the person who lends the money will need to put the money somewhere, most likely either the same or a different bank, or if they use the money to pay somebody else, that person most likely will deposit the same money in the bank, so ultimately, most of the money they lend out stays in the banking system where it can be lent out again.  the fractional reserve requirement just states how much of that money can be lent out again in the aggregate. a 0  reserve requirement basically means the bank can lend it all out again. it does not mean that they will be able to  only so much money in loans is being sought at any given time  nor does it reduce the fiduciary requirements to make good loans that are likely to get paid back. "
"who is actively following the ongoing clinical trials that are being conducted in response to covid-19, including studies looking at the use of chloroquine and its derivative, hydroxychloroquine, for treatment and/or prevention. currently, there is insufficient data to assess the efficacy of either of these medicines in treating patients with covid-19, or in preventing them from contracting the coronavirus. chloroquine is currently recommended by who for the treatment of p. vivax malaria. in the context of the covid-19 response, the dosage and treatment schedules for chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine that are currently under consideration do not reflect those used for treating patients with malaria. the ingestion of high doses of these medicines may be associated with adverse or seriously adverse health outcomes. for public health emergencies, who has a systematic and transparent process for research and development  r d , including for clinical trials of drugs. the who  r d blueprint  for covid-19, initiated on 7 january 2020, aims to fast-track the availability of effective tests, vaccines and medicines that can be used to save lives and avert large-scale crises. who has also designed a set of procedures to assess the performance, quality and safety of medical technologies during emergency situations."
"under eu rules you always get a refund. the extraordinary circumstances only mean that they do not have to pay any additional compensation. so far for the legal side.  their homepage does only offer vouchers, though. the reason is likely that they want to hold on to the cash - espececially since they are not selling any new tickets right now.  scenario one is that they do it because they are not customer-friendly and they assume that only a fraction of the passengers will fight for their money. scenario two is that they do not have the money to refund everyone and do not want to go bust.  my guess is that they are likely to fight any claim for monetary refunds. basically your options are to take the voucher  hoping they will still be around when you want to use it , or to fight for a refund.  "
"list it as an achievement.    awards and achievements      selected for competitive summer program, summer school on abcde. scholarship awarded  attendance cancelled due to covid-19.     i think this is completely appropriate, for the same reasons as argued on this related thread. note: i added  scholarhip awarded , but obviously you should not put that if there was no scholarship :   in general, the purpose of your cv is to brag as much as possible  include everything that sounds impressive, even if you personally do not think it is that impressive. for instance, if you got accepted to two programs and only could attend one, i would list both. it is the same thing here -- the fact that covid-19 is the circumstance is just a detail, not relevant to whether the acceptance is appropriate to list. "
"the cdc says the symptoms are similar to those of a common cold. a patient might develop a fever, a cough, and shortness of breath. at the moment, it appears someone who is infected can show symptoms as early as two days later and as long as 14 days after they have been infected, based on past coronavirus outbreaks like mers and sars."
"  can a shopowner in thailand ban someone from entering their shop on the grounds of their citizenship    the first tweet, explains the context properly:     i am at my local hospital this afternoon to get a medical certificate. my work permit expires soon and so i need to run around getting all the documents in order. at the hospital they wanted to check my passport before letting me in to see if i had been abroad recently.    thailand has been very popular with visitors for decades and if laws existed that discriminated against foreigners this would be commonly known.   so in this case the wouldiscrimination  probably not because of citizenship, but more about a faulty assumption that the virus is spread by foreigners. this will have nothing to do with thai law.  the  tweet  op quotes only another persons claim. the op states in the first tweet that they checked his passport only to see if he was abroad recently. so he did not share the same experience of the american. based on that, this second hand source  that can not be verified  is probably unreliable.   due to the present  global  uncertainties, caused by the coronavirus, one should look at the whole picture.     2020-02-04: coronavirus: chinese targeted as italians panic - bbc news  in italy and elsewhere, panic is spreading much faster than the coronavirus itself. chinese businesses are empty, shopkeepers are shutting down and chinese nationals are being targeted.      at a bar beside the trevi fountain, a notice was put up banning customers from china.     so the the situation described by the original  tweet  op is understandable, but the quoted  but not varified  second hand source as well as the events in italy are not.     the incidents have prompted condemnation from the italian authorities.  prime minister giuseppe conte reprimanded the regional governors, telling them that they were not competent to make such a call and that nothing justified such fear.     discrimination, solely due to citizenship, would be against human rights prevention of discrimination.   special cases may exist for prices that are subsidized and thus only for residents.   dual pricing was common in the czech republic until 1999, when it was ruled illegal  but still persisted . then a foreign resident had to supply proof of residency to avoid paying the higher price. 2007: illegal practice of dual pricing persists in czech republic   at the time we assumed that this was legal  it was certainly understandable , but it seems that was not the case.       are the  human rights prevention of discrimination  written down somewhere  also, who enforce them      universal declaration of human   united nations   human rights enforcement mechanisms of the united nations   escr-net   european convention on human rights - wikipedia    european court of human rights     how these international laws/conventions are implemented into national laws will differ from country to country.   for germany they are anchored into the constitution:    basic law for the federal republic of germany  article 25  primacy of international law    the general rules of international law shall be an integral part of federal law. they shall take precedence over the laws and directly create rights and duties for the inhabitants of the federal territory.   and are enforced by the federal constitutional court  bundesverfassungsgericht  and can be passed on to the european court of justice  or european court of human rights  should the need arise.   thailand: part of section 30 of the constitution of the kingdom of thailand 2007:     unjust discrimination against a person on the grounds of the difference in origin, race, language, sex, age, disability, physical or health condition, personal status, economic or social standing, religious belief, education or constitutionally political view, shall not be permitted.  "
"veterinary partner is a very reliable website that should be able to answer your questions on fip  your cat wont get fip by being with an fip   cat, it can however contract coronavirus. and yes as you mentioned, not all coronavirus cats will develop fip.  from my  common diseases of companion animals  textbook:    80  to 90  of cats in catteries have antibodies to fecv and these cats shed virus intermittently.   that being said by continuously disinfecting and only having one/two cat s  in your home you can eventually clear out fecv  most common household disinfectants work .  you can check your current cat what his current anti-body levels are for coronavirus if you are concerned about a new cat coming in as well.  an excerpt from veterinary partner on fecv:    an active infection lasts several weeks to a few months. virus is shed in the infected cat is stool during this period. if the cat is reinfected, virus sheds again for weeks to months. during this time, the cat may or may not seems at all ill. some infected cats do not shed virus.    the mutation to a form of virus that can cause fip is more likely to occur in an immune-compromised cat. most cats with fip are less than one year old  their immaturity is their immune compromise . crowding is also an important source of immune-compromise. another important factor in mutation is multiple exposure/infections. when cats keep getting reinfected, the virus they carry has more chance of mutating to a form that causes fip.   i have only seen 3 cases of fip in almost 4 years in practice, it is not very common. "
"part of it is going to be that the region  hk, singapore, sk , china  was hit much harder during the 2003 sars epidemic so spent more time getting prepared.  also, it has long been the expectation that the next epidemic would come out of china, both due to population density and proximity to livestock/wild animals, so those countries could expect another  gift  from their chinese neighbors.  japan  it is relatively unscathed so far, but it is an isolated island, with comparatively few foreigners which is not on great terms with its asian neighbors. as  bobsburner mentioned,  travel density  counts for a great deal with covid-19. for now - counting it as luck, might become skill later. or its success might just be down to not-testing, as  steros says.  supply chains are in asia. this is being shown as an achilles  heel of western service-oriented economies: if we need to ramp production of electronic testing kits or ventilators, we are cut off from a lot of the world is manufacturing capacity.  collectivism vs. individualism has a part to play in it as well: it is more difficult for a western politician to push drastic measures like quarantine  let alone china is dictatorial system . still, italy was pretty quick to do so, because they had no choice. still, the cultural traits leading to quick acceptance by the community of harsh limitations on individual liberties seems to be an asian advantage at this point:  here is a medical sciences stack exchange answer re. isolation, testing and surveillance procedures followed in guangdong, near hk, so not wuhan at all. an article partly covering wuhan itself. and we have heard of the one-week hospitals. we are just not there yet, in terms of mobilization. or coercion.  constant deficit spending. a country like italy is at 130   gdp debt. they have resisted pressure to shape up their finances, tax collection, pension payments, etc... for decades. they just do not have anything left to surge spending in emergencies. this applies to just too many european economies.  it is also really too early to say much about the final outcome. currently south korea and china are better at getting the disease under control, but what really counts is the long run. if a few dozen people in wuhan spread the disease rapidly in january then we need to be ready to wait this out for a while -  social distancing  amp  quarantines  for 3 months, then relaxing will result in restarted epidemics.  there is also, esp. at the start, plain luck. the 2003 sars epidemic hit canada is west coast less than toronto, because a doctor got bad vibes about a patient with breathing problems and she isolated them, before any outbreak was known. in toronto the same type of cases mingled with the general hospital staff and patients and the outbreak was much worse. in italy 1 covid case was not identified as such and went to the hospital 4 times, interacting with everyone else. s. korea had a massive cluster early on, but it was within a religious sect, which might interact less with others.  it is hard to really assign a  good vs bad  label to early spread. past that, the quality of political leaders and their ability to balance out economic/social reality vs medical advice  which is still operating in uncertainty - witness the uk is  herd  approach  is going to be key. this is a good time to be listening to experts, and there some of the asian technocrats are a definite better bet than some of the west is populists. i know i would not be thrilled to have duterte in the philippines in charge, for example, and he is asian.  rather than competition and comparisons, it might be useful to see what has been achieved so far: to some extent s. korea and china have shown that aggressive testing and quarantines can slow the disease, australia was very quick to sequence the bug is genome, we got a test within weeks  and some western countries are starting to look at and evaluate candidate vaccines. we are much better off in 2020 than if sars had had that kind of punch in 2003. "
"among the more than 4,000 cases in the u.s. as of march 16, only 5  were people aged 0-19 years, according to the cdc. just 2 -3  of cases in that age group had to be hospitalized, and none were in the icu.    this week, however, health officials reported that a 17-year-old teen in new orleans died after contracting the virus. and a 2-month-old in nashville who tested positive for the virus could be the youngest patient in the nation, officials say. in china, at least one two-day-old infant had been infected, according to a who study."
"depending on where you want to go, not easily. in march, as more and more governments around the world hoped to slow the spread of the coronavirus, they  began to impose travel restrictions  http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-travel- restrictions.html  and even close their borders. in the united states, president trump has said he is considering some restrictions on domestic travel.  the military has curtailed domestic travel for service members and their families.  and if you do go anywhere, remember to  practice social distancing  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/smarter-living/coronavirus- social-distancing.html : stay away from groups and keep at least six feet of distance between you and other people."
"authorities in different states have used different phrases while asking people to stay home. generally, it means you should limit trips outside except for essential needs. you can still go for walks and exercise, but do it in a way that keeps you several feet away from other people. you can still go to the grocery store, but try to go once a week instead of more frequently. and wash your hands when you come back inside."
"there is no vaccine for the new virus and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid-19, so treatment consists of supportive care to help relieve symptoms and, for severe cases, care to support vital organ functions, the cdc says.  about 80  of people recover from the disease without needing special treatment, according to the who. for most patients, that means drinking plenty of fluids and resting, just as you would for the cold or flu."
"  2019-ncov also has enveloped virions that measure approximately 50-200 nm in diameter  with a single positive-sense rna genome.    epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in wuhan, china: a descriptive study, the lancet  2020   "
"for recommendations and guidance on persons under investigation  infection control, including personal protective equipment guidance  home care and isolation  and case investigation, see information for healthcare professionals. for information on specimen collection and shipment, see information for laboratories. for information for public health professional on covid-19, see information for public health professionals."
"with the right keywords  and author searches  from earlier papers, i actually found some academic output already  this might not be peer-reviewed yet, i.e. preprints:   mckibbin and fernando  2 march 2020  the global macroeconomic impacts of covid-19: seven scenarios    examines the impacts of different scenarios on macroeconomic outcomes and  financial markets in a global hybrid dsge/cge general equilibrium model.  the scenarios in this paper demonstrate that even a contained outbreak could significantly  impact the global economy in the short run.  ...   these results are very sensitive to the assumptions in the model, to the shocks we feed in and  to the assumed macroeconomic policy responses in each country.  and that is already cited by wang et al. covid-19 is impact on china is economy based on data of spring festival travel rush    this paper starts with the analysis of the daily railway passenger volume data during the spring festival travel rush, and establishes three time series to model the railway passenger volume, gdp in the first quarter model, and gdp in the last three quarters respectively. the forecast results indicate that:  a  affected by the epidemic, china is economy will lose 4.8 trillion yuan in the first quarter of 2020, which is an expected decrease of 20.69  and a year-on-year drop of 15.60    b  china is expected gdp growth rate for the full year of 2020 will reduce from 6.50  to 1.72 . however, there are some positive factors not taken into account in these models, which means that the forecast results may be underestimated. with the global spread of the epidemic, the instability of the world economy will in turn impact china is economy.  a more recent  march 30  paper, greenstone and nigam that emphasizes/quantifies the benefits of the lockdowns, in the us:    using the ferguson et al.  2020  simulation model of covid-19 is spread and mortality impacts in the united states, we project that 3-4 months of moderate distancing beginning in late march 2020 would save 1.7 million lives by october 1. of the lives saved, 630,000 are due to avoided overwhelming of hospital intensive care units. using the projected age-specific reductions in death and age-varying estimates of the united states government is value of a statistical life, we find that the mortality benefits of social distancing are about   8 trillion or  60,000 per us household. roughly 90  of the monetized benefits are projected to accrue to people age 50 or older. overall, the analysis suggests that social distancing initiatives and policies in response to the covid-19 epidemic have substantial economic benefits.      jp morgan has put out some estimates already, although they do not detail their methodology as much as a peer-reviewed publication would  have to .    the u.s. economy is projected to contract by 14  in the second quarter, after experiencing a 4  contraction in the first quarter, before recovering to 8  and 4  growth in the third and fourth quarters. euro area gdp will suffer an even deeper contraction, with double-digit declines of 15  and 22  in the first and second quarters, before rebounding by 45  and 3.5  in the third and fourth quarters.     there is no longer doubt that the longest global expansion on record will end this quarter. we now think that the covid-19 shock will produce a global recession, as nearly all of the world contracts over the three months between february and april,  said bruce kasman, chief economist at j.p. morgan. initially, the expectation was the novel-recession may generate limited labor market damage, but j.p. morgan research is now forecasting the unemployment rate for developed markets as a whole will rise 1.6 percentage points in the next two quarters.     the rise in unemployment will be sharper in the u.s. than in the euro area. most immediately, u.s. initial jobless claims should spike above 400,000 in the coming weeks,  said michael feroli, chief u.s. economist at j.p. morgan.   mckinsey has a somewhat spread-out  march 25  presentation, but a couple of slides with their scenarios/estimates i could fish from there:     likewise, pwc has a march  white paper mostly focused on australia... but which does come with a global map attached of their estimates of gdp losses, alas in absolute figures only  and i think over one year based on what they say on the previous slide :      before the covid-19 outbreak, there has been a niche academic domain of estimating the economic impact of pandemics already, typically using a cge model. results depend of course on the assumptions used. e.g. smith, keogh-brown et al. had a series of papers approximately a decade ago. quoting from a later one that covered more than one european country:    results suggest gdp losses from the disease of approximately 0.5-2  but school closure and prophylactic absenteeism more than triples these effects.   so they went as high  10  gdp losses. while they did not envisage government mandated lockdown s , they modelled  prophylactic absenteeism  in response to  3  death rate media reports as the most severe case. an earlier paper of theirs, on uk only is open-access in the bmj. quoting their assumption from there    almost everybody in the population will know someone who has died once the mortality rate reaches one death per 300 people, triggering prophylactic absenteeism.   the same authors  keogh-brown and smith  also published in 2008 a fairly detailed post-hoc account of how economic predictions for sars fared in hindsight... which generally was not all that good, meaning that most models overestimated the economic impact of sars. it cites positively an 2003 adb paper of fan that hedged its bets on two different scenarios  early containment being one of them .  another paper verikios et al.  2015  in a similar vein but attempts a global estimate  gtap cge , and also discussed prior/related work:    the two pandemic scenarios modelled give quantitatively and qualitatively different  results.  ...  our results show that the peak gdp effects on the world economy of an influenza pandemic are in the range 0.06 to 1.01 per cent in the peak year depending on the nature of the pandemic. our results are smaller than the only previous estimates of the global economic effects of influenza pandemics by mckibbin and sidorenko  2006 . they estimate reductions in global gdp of between 0.8 and 12.6 per cent depending on the severity of the pandemic. our results are not directly comparable to mckibbin and sidorenko as they did not model a continuum of pandemic scenarios across the virulence-infectiousness continuum. rather, they assume a given reproducibility of the virus  infectiousness  and vary virulence across their four scenarios. further, they implicitly assume multiple waves for all their scenarios as they presume that  new infections continue to occur for greater than one year. this is likely to characterise only more extreme pandemics  such as the 1918-19 flu  rather than milder pandemics. differences in the range of influenza pandemics modelled by us and mckibbin and sidorenko are justifiable given the uncertain nature of future pandemics. our results thus build upon the findings of mckibbin and sidorenko by extending the estimation of potential gdp estimates over a further range of potential pandemic threat scenarios.     ...  our results show that the global macroeconomic effects of an influenza pandemic may be significant but are also likely to be short-lived. the largest economic impacts of an influenza pandemic are driven by reduced international tourism, due to risk-modifying measures by households and travel restrictions imposed by health authorities, and lost workdays, due to illness or formal social distancing measures designed to contain the virus. this is consistent with the work of keogh-brown et al.  2009, 2010 .  ...     verikios seems to work for kpmg australia nowadays and they have released a covid-19 model that is fairly detailed in explaining its assumptions, for example it has separate pre- and post-stimulus arms/scenarios, but it mostly covers the australian case, in particular only models the government response of that country.  kpmg uses a nigem  new-keynesian  macro model, and they have basically tweaked some parameters of this using estimates of shocks in four areas: reduction in productivity due to additional sick leave by workers, reduction in productivity due to additional carer is leave by workers, incremental investment premium, capacity utilisation adjustment  i.e. supply chain disruptions . the first two were informed by fairly detailed labour  amp  health statistics, the latter two seem a bit more arbitrary to me, e.g. they added a flat 1  investment premium.    i was hoping the imf would have something more concrete than this, but i guess they are weary of advancing anything more detailed yet:    the covid-19 pandemic would cause a global recession in 2020 that could be worse than the one triggered by the 2008-2009 global financial crisis, but world economic output should recover in 2021, the imf said on monday.    georgieva issued the new outlook after a conference call of g20 finance ministers and central bankers, who she said agreed on the need for solidarity across the globe.  ...     the outlook for global growth is negative and the imf expects  a recession at least as bad as during the global financial crisis, or worse,  georgieva said.    earlier this month, georgieva had warned that 2020 world growth would be below last year is 2.9 percent rate, but stopped short of predicting a recession.    georgieva on monday said that a recovery is expected in 2021, but to reach it, countries would need to prioritize containment and strengthen health systems.     the economic impact is and will be severe, but the faster the virus stops, the quicker and stronger the recovery will be,  she said.   the cbo has now posted its own assessment for the us economy. it disclaims that it is  highly uncertain, especially for later periods , but basically, for the second quarter of 2020 it predicts 10 percent unemployment and the economy to contract by  more than  7 percent.  the wto secretariat has posted this self-explanatory chart on april 8:   "
the current interim guidance from who on clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when covid-19 infection is suspected advises against the use of corticosteroids unless indicated for another reason. 8 this guidance is based on several systematic reviews that cite lack of effectiveness and possible harm from routine treatment with corticosteroids for viral pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome. 9 
"while specific guidelines vary from city to city, the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  has advised that americans practice social distancing, and stay home, avoid mass gatherings and maintain 6 feet between themselves and others whenever possible. these efforts are intended to help  flatten the curve,  which means distributing the number of coronavirus cases over a longer period of time, to avoid overwhelming the health care system.  americans should continue to uphold proper flu season hygiene. wash your hands often, stay home if you are sick and cough or sneeze into your elbow rather than your hand.  if schools in your district have not yet closed, dr. william schaffner, medical director for the nonprofit national foundation for infectious diseases, suggested sitting down and outlining a plan for how your family might handle schools and businesses closing. does an older relative take prescription medication  now might be a good time to stockpile at least two weeks  worth.    call schools and ask if there are plans for remote schooling -- as some schools have done. figure out a childcare plan in the event schools close, and ask about remote working options. asking more questions now hopefully means asking fewer later."
"  watch your child for any signs of illness.  if you see any sign of illness consistent with symptoms of covid-19, particularly fever, cough, or shortness of breath, call your healthcare provider and keep your child at home and away from others as much as possible. follow cdc is guidance on  what to do if you are sick.    watch for signs of stress in your child.  some common changes to watch for include excessive worry or sadness, unhealthy eating or sleeping habits, and difficulty with attention and concentration. for more information, see the  for parents  section on cdc is website, manage anxiety and stress. take time to talk with your child or teen about the covid-19 outbreak. answer questions and share facts about covid-19 in a way that your child or teen can understand. go to cdc is helping children cope with emergencies or talking with children about covid-19 for more information.   teach and reinforce everyday preventive actions.  parents and caretakers play an important role in teaching children to wash their hands. explain that hand washing can keep them healthy and stop the virus from spreading to others. be a good role model--if you wash your hands often, they are more likely to do the same. make handwashing a family activity.   help your child stay active.  encourage your child to play outdoors--it is great for physical and mental health. take a walk with your child or go on a bike ride. use indoor activity breaks  stretch breaks, dance breaks  throughout the day to help your child stay healthy and focused.   help your child stay socially connected.  reach out to friends and family via phone or video chats. write cards or letters to family members they may not be able to visit. some schools and non-profits, such as the collaborative for academic, social, and emotional learningexternal iconexternal icon and the yale center for emotional intelligenceexternal iconexternal icon, have resources for social and emotional learning. check to see if your school has tips and guidelines to help support social and emotional needs of your child.    "
"the risk depends on where you are - and more specifically, whether there is a covid-19 outbreak unfolding there. for most people in most locations the risk of catching covid-19 is still low. however, there are now places around the world  cities or areas  where the disease is spreading. for people living in, or visiting, these areas the risk of catching covid-19 is higher. governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of covid-19 is identified. be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel, movement or large gatherings. cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading covid-19. covid-19 outbreaks can be contained and transmission stopped, as has been shown in china and some other countries. unfortunately, new outbreaks can emerge rapidly. it is important to be aware of the situation where you are or intend to go."
"khan academy is a great resource for letting children learn math and science/technology at any age. it allows children to progress through different subjects, includes videos to teach them each subject and then offers practice questions to help them master subjects.  i in particular use the  map recommended practice  feature with my son, who is a fairly advanced math student. you can enter their test scores in, and based on those test scores it recommends the next lessons for them to take to ensure appropriate subject matter and difficulty.  i have been offering my children 2 hours of khan academy per day, plus 1 hour of reading, 1 hour of practice programming  using scratch or python , and 1 hour of more gamified learning  such as prodigy, which is basically pokemon but with math problems needing to be solved in order to do damage to your opponent  . i intersperse an hour of video gaming time and an hour of playing either outside or around the house  but mobile, not sitting time  in order to keep them active.  "
"india is not testing much. you can go here and play around with testing relative to the population of some countries. while the us has already a relatively low testing rate given with 25 daily tests per million people, the number of india is even smaller. if you do not test, you can not count infected people   "
"let is assume your teaching practices are the best possible. students want you to change your teaching practices. you should respond by explaining to students why your practices are effective  do this even if they do not ask .   examples:    additional exam papers with full solutions  there are already three  past exam papers with solutions available .   studying the three past exams will help you learn what you need to learn from this class. additional past exams will not provide additional help. if you have extra time, i suggest you ...    a list of the exact topics that will be examined in each of the exam  exercises  this is, if the exam contains 5 questions, then i should  provide the corresponding 5 topics .   all the topics listed on the course syllabus are important things for you to know. therefore, any of them might be on the exam and you should study all of them. if it was not important enough to be on the exam, then i did not teach it.    if these types of responses are not true, then i suggest changing your teaching until they are true.  "
"the peak body for obstetrics and gynaecology and women is health, ranzcog, has advice and information about covid-19. at this time, pregnant women do not appear to be more severely unwell if they develop covid-19 infection than the general populationthere is no evidence to suggest an increased risk of miscarriagethere is no evidence to suggest the virus can pass to your developing babythere is no evidence the virus is carried in breastmilk"
"some parts of viruses are consistently shaped, in particular anything that is made of multiple copies of a protein sticking together. there are methods to determine the structures of these regular components to high precision, like single particle analysis  eg. zika  and x-ray crystallography  bacteriophage hk97 . other parts of the virus are less consistent, either because they are flexible or because they are produced slightly differently each time. the nucleic acid core is often arranged semi-randomly, and the lipid envelope of many viruses can vary greatly, dependent on the process by which parts of the host cell is membrane is pinched off to create new viral particles. here is an example of pretty extreme variability of influenza particles, based on what cell type they have infected. virus particles with different shapes can be just as infectious, but if they are too large the number of new viruses produced by an infected cell may be too low. "
"it seems like there are three questions here:   is the actual distribution of cases gaussian  no.  are the curves given in the graphic gaussian  not quite. i think the red one is a little bit skewed, and the blue one is definitely skewed. can plots of a value versus time be considered gaussian  yes.      in mathematics, a gaussian function, often simply referred to as a gaussian, is a function of the form   f x    ae  -  frac   x-b   2   2c  2        for arbitrary real constants a, b and non zero c.    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/gaussian function  there is no requirement that it be a probability distribution. "
"if you cannot access your contraceptive method of choice - perhaps because it requires a prescription, or because it can only be given to you by a health worker - consider using condoms, fertility awareness-based methods, lactational amenorrhea  if you are exclusively breastfeeding , or other contraceptive methods that are recommended for self-care in your country. depending on the situation in your country, methods recommended for self-care could include the pill or mini-pill, emergency contraception pills, and dmpa-sc  sayana press r  ."
"it primarily spreads between people through respiratory droplets, like through coughs, sneezes, spittle.   you can also get coronavirus by touching infected surfaces, then touching your mouth, eyes or nose."
"well, with a lot of viruses, i mean, after you have gotten exposed to it the first time, you will have partial protection against it going forward. and there is reason to think that the same could be true with this virus. now, the cdc says there is still a lot that is not known about the immune response to covid-19. but for now, they are saying patients who have recovered from an infection are not likely to be re-infected shortly afterwards."
"  i will be travelling by car with my friend  only 1 friend .    with the current lockdown rules, will i be stopped and fined    from coronavirus: boris johnson is address to the nation in full - bbc news     that is why people will only be allowed to leave their home for the following very limited purposes:       shopping for basic necessities, as infrequently as possible   one form of exercise a day - for example a run, walk, or cycle - alone or with members of your household    any medical need, to provide care or to help a vulnerable person  and   travelling to and from work, but only where this is absolutely necessary and cannot be done from home.       that is all - these are the only reasons you should leave your home.   since none of the above conditions are fullfilled, very likely.     what are the possible consequences    a fine, the amount of which has not yet been announced.   the legislation can be viewed at:    the health protection  coronavirus, restrictions   england  regulations 2020    section  nbsp  nbsp 6: restrictions on movement section 10: fixed penalty notices     the times  from 24th march suggest this will be from 30ps to 1000ps  third paragraph :   "
  diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. follow manufacturer is instructions for application and proper ventilation. check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date. never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser. unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted.   prepare a bleach solution by mixing:  5 tablespoons  1/3rd cup  bleach per gallon of water or  4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water  http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/cleaning-disinfection.html 
" obviously, the 800 numbers are overwhelmed,  said michael holtz, the founder and chief executive of smartflyer, a luxury travel agency. many airlines in the united states have informed travelers that they could expect longer wait times to speak to a customer service agent. some have redirected callers to their websites and their apps, or asked travelers to leave their contact information for an agent. contacting an airline via social media platforms like twitter and facebook may be your best option right now.  my advice is to use technology,  he said."
"there have been media reports in china, japan, and south korea about individuals who had the virus and eventually tested negative for it and were released, only to test positive for it again a short time later.  scientists in those countries have speculated that testing errors could be to blame, either for a false negative that said the patients were free of the virus or for the positive result that signalled its reoccurrence.  dr. iris gorfinkel, a family physician and medical researcher, said it is really too soon to know whether an individual can contract covid-19 more than once, and how quickly that can happen.   we actually do not know. we do not know how long-lasting the immunity is to it,  she told ctv is your morning on march 16.  these viruses have the tendency to morph and change.   in fact, it is still not even clear if people develop an immediate immunity to covid-19, as is typically the case with other virus strains, such as the flu.   so just like any other virus, there is the possibility that it could shift or drift. just minor changes could change it from a once mild infection to a more severe infection,  she explained."
"of course, eating too much or too little in the short term is not a huge cause of concern for someone who is healthy,  experts said  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/well/how-to-manage-stress-eating-or- not-eating.html . but in the long term, moderation is important. your body is physical stress response may affect what kinds of foods you are reaching for, drawing you more toward carbohydrates and foods that are high in fat. take stock of how any stress and anxiety may have affected your eating habits. if you think you are snacking too much when you are not hungry, it may help to allow some time to pass and distract yourself with another activity before grabbing more food. try to add some healthy snacks like fruits and vegetables into your routine, if you can. if you are regularly not eating enough, find something you can tolerate eating, or drink a calorie-rich beverage, like a protein shake. if you are forgetting to eat entirely, schedule your mealtimes into your calendar and treat meals like any other essential appointment. you can also set alarms as a reminder to drink some water, or eat something."
"at this time, there is no evidence that the virus that causes covid-19 can spread to people from the skin or fur of pets. talk to your veterinarian about the best ways to care for your pet."
"covid-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads. the virus that causes covid-19 is thought to mainly spread from close contact  i.e., within about 6 feet  with a person who is currently sick with covid-19. the virus likely spreads primarily through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, similar to how influenza and other respiratory infections spread. these droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. this type of spread is not a concern after death. it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of covid-19. older people and people of all ages with severe underlying health conditions are at higher risk of developing serious covid-19 illness. there may be less of a chance of the virus spreading from certain types of touching, such as holding the hand or hugging after the body has been prepared for viewing. other activities, such as kissing, washing, and shrouding should be avoided before, during, and after the body has been prepared, if possible. if washing the body or shrouding are important religious or cultural practices, families are encouraged to work with their community is cultural and religious leaders and funeral home staff on how to reduce their exposure as much as possible. at a minimum, people conducting these activities should wear disposable gloves. if splashing of fluids is expected, additional personal protective equipment  ppe  may be required  such as disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and n-95 respirator . cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer is instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products  e.g., concentration, application method and contact time . products with epa-approved emerging viral pathogens claimspdf iconexternal iconpdf iconexternal icon are expected to be effective against covid-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. after removal of ppe, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60  alcohol if soap and water are not available. soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled."
"during a recent hackathon i witnessed, a team prepared a gadget like a smart watch. the goal is to check how many times does a person cough, to track fever and such. a really cheap piece which can be worn by everyone. the data that can be attained would yield geo-coordinates of the societies and getting affected and need attention. it can help prioritize areas of immediate concern. "
"too early to fit models with  r 0   with only data about the number of infected people .  the larger problem is that the development is still in the exponential phase and we can not model the decrease of the exponential growth rate. see also this question: fitting sir model with 2019-ncov data doesn  39 t conververge in that framework  sir model  the only variable that can be accurately determined is   beta -  gamma  but  r 0    beta/ gamma  is still difficult to determine  but it seems to be   beta- gamma  approx 0.4  gt  0  thus we at least know that  r 0 gt 1  .  see also the comment at the end of that answer about the use of only a time series in the number of infected people. that number does not provide a good measure of  r 0 , but it is auxiliary information that is being used. for instance direct estimates of   gamma  the parameter relating to how long people remain infectious  by observing how the virus has spread, rather than just using the quantitative numbers .    regarding your problem/question  binomial distribution  one might model the reported cases as a binomial distributed variable. the observed/reported cases will be some fraction  p  of the underlying real cases  in more advanced models this fraction could be variable depending on time and the number of cases . but the current data do not allow to study this  potentially one can fill in the gaps based on studies on a wider set of epidemical data .   given such situation  a binomial distributed fraction  one would expect that the variance is related to the mean by a factor between 0 and 1  binomial distribution has   mu   np  and  var   npq  . however when we plot an exponential curve to the data then we currently get rss being a factor 4 larger than the sum of means. thus there is posibly overdispersion instead of underdispersion  although it is not yet a good accurate measure  .   with so little data we can not be sure. in addition the model is not so great  as you say the approaches use simple gaussian likelihood . one might use some correlation in the errors. i imagine that this is a potential source of overdispersion.       data infected  lt - c 45, 62, 121, 198, 291, 440, 571, 830, 1287, 1975, 2744, 4515  day  lt - 0: length infected -1      exponential model mod  lt - nls infected   a exp b day ,   start   list a   infected 1 ,  b   log infected 2 /infected 1     mod  plot day,infected, log    y   lines day,predict mod   title  exponential fit       residuals versus mean plot predict mod ,abs infected-predict mod  , log  xy ,  xlim   c 10 1,10 5 , ylim   c 1,10 4 ,  xlab    predicted ,  ylab    abs observed-predicted    rr  lt -  10 seq -1,5,0.1       comparing residuals with square root of mean lines rr,sqrt rr ,lty 2    mean lines rr,2 sqrt rr ,lty 2    mean text 10 4.5,10 2.25,  1sd ,srt 30,pos 1  text 10 4.5,2 10 2.25,  2sd ,srt 30,pos 3  title  comparing residuals  obs - pred   n with square root of mean , cex.main 1   sum infected  sum  infected-predict mod   2    poisson distribution for increments  there is new/recent an r package available on github that aims to model this specific epidemic:  http://rdrr.io/github/chrism0dwk/wuhan/  this model models an ode according to a seir model and uses data that is separated for individual regions  combining this wit hthe population size in those regions and the transport in between those regions .   the predictions from the model are compared with the observations by comparing the increments and assuming that these increments are poisson distributed.     is there enough data   the exponential model in the above graph does not fit accurately the data  although i would say the exponential fit is sufficient, still one might desire some more complex fit to learn more . one could make the fits more complex, possibly the factors that determine the dynamics are not constant in time.   but, one may wonder what could be achieved by making the model more complex. i do not see what could be achieved. the data shows a reasonable exponential curve, and i do not believe that we should try to squeeze more out of the present data.  potentially, one could incorporate more background information, and then some sort of simulations  , and a more bayesian approach, could be interesting in order to project into the future what we could see  but this will lean mostly on prior information and those 12 data points do not provide a lot of information .    those simulations would also help to handle the correlations mentioned in the previous footnote.  some interesting view of the data might be the distribution of the increases in the infections from day to day. this increase is not constant in time. we might better regard it as a variable with a random distribution by itself  and model variation in growth curves based on this random variation in the growth rate . models to use are http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/geometric brownian motion  the likelihood computation by chris jewell is also treating the evolution as a random walk by evaluating the observed istep sizes/ increments      plot day -1 ,infected -1 /infected -12 ,  xlab    day , ylab    infected/infected previous day   title  daily relative increase in infections , cex.main 1   hist 100  infected -1 /infected -12  -100,   xlab    increase infections , cex.main   1,  main    histogram daily relative increase    "
"it is difficult to keep track of the rapidly changing legal variables, but it would be illegal and unconstitutional for state police to set up an unauthorized stop-and-search checkpoint on the road   due process  means  following the law  . as a prelude, there would have to be some higher authority that empowers them to do this. you would have to scrutinize the emergency powers legislation of every state to be certain, but no governor has the power to mandate blanket body searches in case of a medical emergency.  martial law shifts enforcement of the law to the military, but does not generally create arbitrary decree-writing powers .  the legal foundation of such searching would have to be a new law: then the question is what the law requires that could make on-the-road body searches constitutional. since the right to be free of unreasonable searches is a fundamental constitutional right, this law would be reviewed under strict scrutiny. searches  just for fun  will not pass such scrutiny, nor will  because it is an emergency  or  keep the public safe . having the disease is not and cannot be a crime, so this law would have to be founded on a strict no-travel requirement. that brings the matter within the sphere of the  officer safety  exception in the case of an arrest. i am not suggesting that an absolute travel ban would be upheld as constitutional in the us, but that is the kind of legal foundation that would be required for state police to force people to be covid-searched. "
"  does this mean or is there an indirect signals that uk government would be closing borders for all affected countries soon    no, it means that due to jamaica is restrictions there may be less planes available to return with.    their response was lengthy but in essence they said they will try their best to bring everyone home if such case occurs.   this is, for them, a logistic problem. will the plane needed be there on the 20th for your scheduled return flight .  having a reservation relatively soon after the 16th is a positive point for you. somebody who would be casually traveling from island to island less so.   assume nobody is interested in keeping peaple stranded. it may not work out exactly as planned, but as seen in the recent past, everybody was able to return.  keep in close contact with your travel agent and make sure you are available at short notice to leave.   if you are not satisfied with this arraignment, you can make your own. but assume this may be difficult.   also make sure that your travel insurance covers this situation if you expect them to cover the costs of your private arrangements. "
"to understand what it means, let is unpack the text of the decision.    sufficient justification for the purpose and circumstances of the intended stay was not provided.   that is one of the standard reasons for refusals provided in the schengen visa code and other official documents. in general, it means that the consulate is not convinced you have a valid purpose for travel. there are many reasons why that might be and the rest is just an explanation of how they reached that conclusion.    the specific purpose for which the visa was applied for is no longer valid or will cease to be valid before you arrive in the member state of destination.   this one is more specific and should help understand the first one. what this means is that the purpose for the trip you described in your original application might have been valid at some point in the past but it is not current anymore. imagine you want to attend a conference but your application is delayed and the date of the conference has passed by the time the application is being assessed. going to a conference is a perfectly valid purpose for a trip but if that specific conference has passed, you cannot possibly attend it and it is not a valid purpose for a visit anymore.   it is difficult to say more without knowing more about your application but there are currently many restrictions on entry, travel and access to public areas across europe due to the covid-19 pandemic. so there are many legitimate trips to the schengen area that are just not possible anymore. for example, if you applied for a visa to vacation in italy, providing hotel bookings, etc. your trip does not have a purpose anymore as it will not be possible for you to stay at these hotels or visit any sights.    no other  secondary  purpose was stated at the time of the application,  or  if it was, insufficient documentation was provided to demonstrate the purpose of the stay.    a single journey can very well have several purposes. even if one of them ceases to be valid, it does not mean that the trip is necessarily useless. but, in the judgment of the consular officer, you did not describe any other sufficient purpose for this journey. it could be a reference to some detail of your application or simply some boilerplate they add to all such decisions.   note: i changed  of  into  or . it makes more sense in this sentence  it could be a simple typo or a confusion with the dutch word  of , which does mean  or .   so what does it mean for you  the decision is negative, you will not get a visa and cannot travel at this time. an appeal does not seem to make sense to me so you will need to start a new application from scratch if you want to travel to the schengen area in the future.  on the other hand, that is not the worst reason to be refused a visa. nothing suggests the consular officer suspected that you might be lying  they can use a different phrasing -  the justification  ...  was not reliable  in that case  and they have not expressed any doubt regarding your personal situation and willingness to abide by the rules. so a new application in a few months from now, when covid-19 restrictions have been lifted, seems like it would have good chances to be successful. "
"the light novel washio sumi wa yusha de aru, which is set in the same universe 2 years prior and is the prequel of the anime, targets the seinen demographic. the seinen demographic includes males from 17 years of age and above. it can be safe to assume that the anime yuki yuna wa yusha de aru is for the same demographic as the light novel.  the show is also broadcast at late night on the primary channel mbs and other channels, at as early as 22:00 and as late as 03:00 late night. the late night showing of the anime implies that it is at least for young adults and not for tween girls as the introduction might have suggests.   sources:   wikipedia - yuki yuna wa yusha de aru: washio sumi wa yusha de aru is target demographic seinen definition: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/seinen manga tv schedule: http://live.nicovideo.jp/watch/lv195090725  "
"this is a great biological question  it asks a lot about how empirical science is done in the field of modern biology  i am glad we encourage such questions from curious people who want to learn more.  mutations are mostly deleterious to begin with. this means that mutant copies of virus only very rarely survive and proliferate. a virus that is deadlier will already be less likely to reproduce, having killed more hosts.  the current estimated mutation rate of the sars-cov-2 virus is 24 bases per year. of those mutations, those to be most concerned about are those which would mutate the proteins specific to this virus. vaccine development will aim to train the immune system to target those proteins, particularly the s or spike protein.  mutations to those proteins can make potential vaccines less effective. this is why influenza   flu   vaccines, which are produced ahead of the flu season, may not always line up against the more prevalent strains which result.  a recent comment was published in nature, authored by life scientists and epidemiologists, which goes into your question in more detail, as regards to the novel coronavirus:    in this case and that of sars-cov-2, mutations consume the narrative, even though individual mutations seldom become fixed during outbreaks nor modulate complex virological traits. rather, mutation is a humdrum aspect of life for an rna virus. because these viruses employ an intrinsically error-prone rna polymerase for replication, their genomes will accumulate mutations during every copying cycle. moreover, these cycles can occur on the order of hours, ensuring that a diverse virus population will be generated within a single infected host. while this amazing capacity to mutate fuels the engine of evolutionary change, most mutations adversely impact some aspect of virus function and are removed by natural selection.  emphasis added    further, and more to the original point of your question:    these warnings will probably not halt the question as to whether mutations will arise in sars-cov-2, enabling it to spread more efficiently between humans or generate a higher case fatality rate. in response, we can look to the 2002-2003 sars-cov epidemic. large deletions in the open reading frame 8  orf8  region and mutations in the spike  s  protein were discovered during the early stages of the outbreak and eventually dominated the epidemic, suggesting that these were adaptations to humans12,13. based on this observation, some hypothesized that virus genetic changes in part drove the sars epidemic, but this claim is unsubstantiated14. so, could sars-cov-2 adapt in the same way  yes. will adaptation precipitate more deaths  unlikely.  emph. added   "
"expectant mothers should be encouraged to have a birth partner with them during labour and birth, the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists says, unless the partner is showing symptoms of coronavirus.  as local trusts may place restrictions on visitors, partners may not be able to go to antenatal appointments, or stay with women on antenatal or postnatal wards. but this does not mean they cannot attend the birth, as long as they feel well.  some nhs trusts will allow only one birth partner to be in attendance, where previously they had allowed two. there were reports that others had banned partners  attendance altogether, before doing a u-turn on official advice.    understandably, some pregnant women feel nervous about going into a hospital in case it increases their risk of catching the coronavirus.    maternity units are carrying out some consultations over the phone or via video link, but some in-person visits with the midwife are essential for the wellbeing of the mother and baby, the royal college of midwives says.    it adds that home births may no longer be available in some local areas, mainly due to staff and ambulance shortages, but maternity wards are being kept as separate from covid-19 treatment areas as possible."
"the mother does not seem like she will change her ways. some people might encourage you to try to talk to her about her treatment of the kids, to give her an ultimatum, but personally i think this could just make the situation worse. you need to get the kids away from her. the best way to do this would be the legal route, unless you greatly expect that she will happily let you have full custody, not wanting to see the kids for them, or out of spite against you.   any evidence you can get will be very useful. the maid may be able to support what you say, depending on how open your wife is with her mistreatment of the kids. i would also suggest trying to get some video or audio recordings, but you should look into whether these can be used in court if the other person is not aware that they are being recorded.   in terms of the kitchen, i suggest kid-proofing it. try to store any dangerous items out of their reach, and any low cupboards that need to store dangerous items should have childproofing locks. "
"no, you do not have to prove your citizenship, because the payment is not only for us citizens. it is for all us citizens or  resident aliens  for tax purposes, who have a social security number, make less than the income threshold  it phases out at an agi of between  75,000 and  99,000 for single filers and  150,000 and  198,000 for joint filers , and cannot be claimed by someone else as a dependent on their taxes.  the recovery rebates are provided in the cares act  text here , section 2201. the parts that limit eligibility for the rebate are the following:  the income limitation:     c  limitation based on adjusted gross income.--the amount of the  credit allowed by subsection  a   determined without regard to this  subsection and subsection  e   shall be reduced  but not below zero   by 5 percent of so much of the taxpayer is adjusted gross income as  exceeds--     1   150,000 in the case of a joint return,     2   112,500 in the case of a head of household, and     3   75,000 in the case of a taxpayer not described in paragraph  1   or  2 .   disallowing it to nonresident aliens, people who can be claimed as dependents, and estates and trusts:     d  eligible individual.--for purposes of this section, the term   eligible individual  means any individual other than--     1  any nonresident alien individual,     2  any individual with respect to whom a deduction under section 151  is allowable to another taxpayer for a taxable year beginning in the  calendar year in which the individual is taxable year begins, and     3  an estate or trust.   and disallowing it to people who do not have a social security number  or whose spouses do not have a social security number if filing jointly :     g  identification number requirement.--     1  in general.--no credit shall be allowed under subsection  a  to an  eligible individual who does not include on the return of tax for the  taxable year--     a  such individual is valid identification number,     b  in the case of a joint return, the valid identification number of  such individual is spouse, and     c  in the case of any qualifying child taken into account under  subsection  a  2 , the valid identification number of such qualifying  child.     2  valid identification number.--     a  in general.--for purposes of paragraph  1 , the term  valid  identification number  means a social security number  as such term is  defined in section 24 h  7  .     b  adoption taxpayer identification number.--for purposes of paragraph   1  c , in the case of a qualifying child who is adopted or placed for  adoption, the term  valid identification number  shall include the  adoption taxpayer identification number of such child.     3  special rule for members of the armed forces.--paragraph  1  b   shall not apply in the case where at least 1 spouse was a member of  the armed forces of the united states at any time during the taxable  year and at least 1 spouse satisfies paragraph  1  a .     4  mathematical or clerical error authority.--any omission of a  correct valid identification number required under this subsection  shall be treated as a mathematical or clerical error for purposes of  applying section 6213 g  2  to such omission.   to answer your question, someone on a work visa will almost certainly qualify for the payment if their income is below the threshold, because they are  resident aliens  for tax purposes since they pass the substantial presence test  except maybe if they arrived this year , and they have social security numbers. "
"the prime minister has also said all  non-essential  travel within australia should be cancelled. western australia, south australia, queensland, northern territory and tasmania have essentially closed their borders - any arrivals are required to self-isolate for 14 days."
"a study of more than 72,000 cases in mainland china found that at least one person between ten and 19 years of age had died, but no one younger than ten had died. a subsequent study in the journal pediatrics found that a 14-year-old boy from china died in february after contracting the coronavirus.    it was not immediately clear if anyone younger had died elsewhere in the world.    by comparison, at least 155 children in the u.s. have died after contracting the flu so far this flu season, according to the cdc."
"short answer: probably not.   long answer: for your body to build immunity against something, it needs to identify it as something harmful to you. otherwise, how would it know if this is just some random particle in your environment that it should ignore  there are molecular clues that your body uses to recognize better whether something is likely a pathogen  that means it should try to build immunity against  and those are some of the additives  known as adjuvants  present in man-made vaccines.   also, the route of administration is also important. things that you eat or breath in are triaged by the waldeyer ring because maybe you just ate something that is alive, but not exactly a pathogen. dysfunctions in this process  thinking a normal protein is part of a dangerous pathogen  is believed to be one of the possible causes of allergies. injecting it into your blood-stream often makes it more effective  but there are exceptions: polio vaccine however can be orally administered .   a nice read about this topic is this: the dichotomy of pathogens and allergens in vaccination approaches.  this is perhaps a must read on this topic: what to expect of a good vaccine and how to achieve it.  i am not really sure what else to tell you. the process you described is a part of the manufacturing of some vaccines, so you are on the right track. but vaccines are hard to make, you can not do it for every disease and involves a lot of experimenting. "
"no, for a few reasons. the most relevant is that, even if you could numerically determine the value of the intercept term in the model, you would not be able to tell what conditions are represented by the intercept term of the model fit by the researchers  unless they provided some very specific details about their methods, e.g.,  did they center their predictors , etc. .  the way these models are defined, you need to know what the  reference  point of each coefficient is. by convention the reference point for continuous variables is often zero, but the choice of reference is completely arbitrary for categorical variables  though it does appear to be stated in the article .  on a more conceptual note, models like this one are often limited in their ability to predict accurate  class probabilities  because their goal is to explain relationships between predictors, or to describe relative risk-reducing or risk-increasing relationships among the predictors in the model. often these models use only a limited number of variables to arrive at a parsimonious model, which tries to keep multicollinearity low, so that the individual effects of predictors are easier to interpret.   another way of looking at it is this: the model may have been designed to address research questions such as:  what is the relative importance of age with respect to the risk of an in-hospital death after controlling for other demographic factors  . even if the model does this very well, it may be very bad at answering fundamentally different questions, such as  what is the probability that a female will experience an in-hospital death   "
"is there a difference in the gene encoding for the protease   this paper by wu et al. annotates the sars-cov-2 genome and compares its divergence from other coronaviruses, which may help answer your second question.  this annotation includes 16 genes for non-structural protein   nsp  . supplemental materials for this paper indicate that all but two of these proteins  nsp7 and nsp13  have amino acid substitutions between sars-cov-2   2019-ncov  in the paper  and sars-cov.   the gene nsp5 encodes 3clpro  chymotrypsin-like cysteine protease , so there are differences there.   literature suggests nsp5 and other non-structural proteins are potential targets for a number of antiviral therapies.  another paper suggests further that lopinavir targets nsp3 products, among other proteins, in use against sars-cov:    lopinavir is possible target is nsp3b, nsp3c, helicase, nrbd or e-channel with the mfscores of -158.050, -189.140, -114.018, -171.127, and -221.785, respectively.   the nsp3 gene contains a papain-like protease 2  pl2pro  domain. supplemental materials from the first linked paper suggest nsp3 has a different amino acid sequence between sars-cov and sars-cov-2.   it might be worth digging into the wu et al. paper and the raw annotation data to look at what those a.a. substitutions are, to see if that might help in determining why lopinavir is not as efficient at inactivating pl2pro and reducing levels of the novel coronavirus.  it may also be worth considering the target itself. going back to the nature biotechnology article:    but erik de clercq, of the rega institute for medical research in leuven, belgium, says that in searching for or designing effective drugs against covid-19:  we should stay away from antivirals known to be acting at targets not playing a role in the replication of coronaviruses.  such drugs include penciclovir, which is targeted at the herpesvirus dna polymerase, and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are targeted at the hiv protease. instead, he would favor targeting a virus-specific protein such as the rna-dependent rna polymerase, noting that coronaviruses do not contain or use a reverse transcriptase.  "
"there is currently no cure for the novel coronavirus. and while research is underway, it could be more than a year before a vaccine becomes publicly available."
"university of washington  uw medicine  suggests testing criteria on their site: http://covid-19.uwmedicine.org/pages/default.aspx  the following patients with covid-19 symptoms should be tested for covid-19:   patients hospitalized with severe lower respiratory illness   healthcare workers   patients in other public safety occupations  e.g., law enforcement, fire fighter, ems    patients involved in an illness cluster in a facility or institution  e.g., healthcare, school, corrections, homeless/shelters, other institution/congregate setting  the following patients with covid-19 symptoms should contact their healthcare provider and be tested for covid-19 if their symptoms worsen or their healthcare provider recommends testing:   patients older than 60 years   patients with underlying medical conditions   pregnant women younger, healthy individuals with mild illness do not need to be tested. they should stay home for 7 days or 72 hours after symptom resolution, whichever is longer. additionally, testing is not recommended in persons who are asymptomatic. a negative test result does not rule out an infection. there are currently no restrictions on who can be tested for covid-19 and commercial testing is becoming more available. healthcare providers may test any patient with symptoms consistent with covid-19  e.g., fever, cough, shortness of breath .  "
"  if i get infected once with the virus which causes a common cold, does that mean i will not get infected with the same strain of the virus ever in my lifetime     it depends on quirks of your immune system and the viral load you are exposed to, but in theory  based on vaccination and other studies , presence of the virus will trigger a suppressive response, not to nasal mucosal invasion but to viral replication and cell destruction/inflammation to the degree that you clinically manifest  a cold .   regarding your quirks,    the persistence of high-titer serotype-specific antibody is associated with protection from infection as well as reduced symptom severity following experimental challenge with the same serotype  52 . however, there is little cross-neutralization among serotypes, which presents a challenge to vaccine development, given that there are more than 100 different known hrv serotypes  53 . further support for the role of humoral immunity in the prevention and control of hrv infection was observed in a study of patients with primary hypogammaglobulinemia. these patients experienced more frequent and severe hrv infections than their healthy spouses despite the administration of replacement immunoglobulin therapy  54 .   that is only the beginning. immunology is very complex.    to what extent do you think creating a universal vaccine for the common cold could be successful...   close to, if not, zero.  there are about 120 distinctly different serotypes of rhinovirus which cause the  common cold , which could require 120 separate vaccines. also a significant percentage of  colds  are caused by other types of viruses  coronavirus - like tat in china right now, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza and parainfluenza viruses  as well as some bacteria.    human coronaviruses, members of the coronaviridae family, were first identified in 1962 and have been particularly difficult to isolate by use of standard cell culture techniques.   one needs to reliably grow a virus before making a vaccine.    efforts at vaccine development are hindered by the existence of more than 100 hrv serotypes with high-level sequence variability in the antigenic sites.   and    compared to patients with coronavirus-associated colds, there is no difference in respiratory symptom severity or duration.   however, there is a light at the end of the tunnel: the older you get, the fewer new viruses you are exposed to  if you stay in one geograpical location , and the fewer colds you get. i have not had a  common cold  in a few years now. if i move across the continent, i will have more colds. "
"getting someone into the habit of doing anything requires repetition, as that is what a habit is largely: a settled or regular tendency or practice.   the best way to establish a habit in a child from my experience is to gently remind them to do the habitual action immediately after the  cue  for the action. in this case, it would be to:   hear your child cough if they did not cover: remind them to cover their mouth praise them for covering their mouth   the praise is appropriate either if they did cover their mouth, or if they did not but they covered their mouth when you told them to  yes, this is pointless, but it establishes the habit .   there are some more rigorous explanations of this method, such as here  that site goes into some detail about the relationship between  cue ,  routine , and  reward .   it is not something that will happen instantly, but it does work over time. the key is not to be upset when they fail - do not be negative about it at all. just be positive. polite reminder to do the action  do not forget to cover your mouth  , praise for doing it  good job covering your mouth , and then repeat  "
"research is currently underway to understand the impacts of covid 19 infection on pregnant women. data are limited, but at present there is no evidence that they are at higher risk of severe illness than the general population. however, due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, we know that pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections. it is therefore important that they take precautions to protect themselves against covid-19, and report possible symptoms  including fever, cough or difficulty breathing  to their healthcare provider.who will continue to review and update its information and advice as more evidence becomes available."
"if there are no financial advantages to pre-paying your insurance, then your hypothesis is correct - it is probably in your best interest to pay the loan down with your cash now, and pay the insurance monthly.  but be sure to check on your insurance policy about payment terms - every policy i have ever had  granted, i am in the us  has had a significant discount for pre-paying  the best has been on my current motorcycle policy, where i can save just more than 10  by prepaying . if your policy has such a discount, it may make sense to pre-pay the insurance instead.  if you do choose to make a lump sum payment on the car loan, it probably makes sense to actively communicate with your bank to make sure the payment is applied immediately to principal. some banks may interpret lump sums as your intention to pre-pay the  normal  monthly payments, which essentially means some of the lump sum gets used towards interest, which is not in your favor. "
"we still do not know if a pregnant woman with covid-19 can pass the virus to her foetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery. to date, the virus has not been found in samples of amniotic fluid or breastmilk."
"it is definitely real. and it is also a lot to juggle when you are also dealing with a pandemic. i hope this helps. we will learn a lot more as things start to play out., so i will continue to update as we go along. i would love to hear your success or challenges. you can message me at the links below."
"usually, the trump administration referred to the virus as  coronavirus ,  the coronavirus , or, more commonly in press releases and official documents, the official who name of  covid-19 . the response team headed by vp mike pence was termed the  coronavirus task force , for example.  there are however, instances prior to march 12th, when the allegations were tweeted by a chinese official for the first time, where a location was attached to the disease.   as far back as the start of february, white house chief economic advisor larry kudlow described the virus as  the chinese virus  in an interview with fox business network.  mike pompeo and republican senators  amp  representatives repeatedly used the term  wuhan virus  in press briefings and in debates in the weeks leading up to the 12th. on the 9th, gop leader kevin mccarthy tweeted a link to the cdc website, saying that it offered  everything you need to know about the chinese coronavirus .  on march 10th, trump retweeted a tweet by charlie kirk, the founder of turning point usa, which calls the virus  china virus  and says that  the us stands a chance if we can control of our borders  sic . in his address on march 11th which announced the travel ban to schengen countries, trump described the disease as a  foreign virus .  it should be noted that this is not specific to the trump administration, indeed, before march, many media outlets also included a geographic adjective in their reporting, including the bbc, the guardian, al jazeera, the financial times, reuters, scientific american, the associated press, the global times, and the washington post, amongst others. this term then fell out of use towards the end of february, as this analysis by axios shows, being replaced by the who sanctioned terms.   in conclusion, then, while us administration officials usually used the term  coronavirus , or the medical term  covid-19 , there was significant use of a geographic adjective, be that  china ,  chinese , or  wuhan . while this was not initially exclusive to conservative politicians or administration officials, in the last couple of weeks in response to many claims that the term is racist, offensive, and inaccurate, this language has become far less popular, and now is used in the us almost solely by republican officials  amp  conservative media outlets, and has become far more frequently used by these individuals. "
"the who guidelines for vhf victims  ebola etc.  do say that they should be buried in body bags, and if those are not available, in plastic sheeting.    if body bags are not available, wrap the body in two  thickness of cotton cloth and soak with 1:10 bleach  solution. then wrap the body in plastic sheeting. seal the  wrapping with plastic tape. spray the body bag as in  step 3. place the body in a coffin if one is available.   obviously some are treating covid-19 victims with the same amount of caution. i can not tell you at the moment if this is justified or not. "
"tests are limited and most state and local health authorities will tell you not to get tested, even if you have symptoms, unless:    you have symptoms and were recently in contact with someone who tested positive for coronavirus.  you have symptoms and need to be hospitalized.  cotton swabs and tests are in short supply, so if you do not fall into the above two categories, chances are your doctor will not order a test.     still, if you have symptoms, call your medical doctor to be advised on how to proceed. you most likely will be directed to self-quarantine for 14 days.    for all of us, stay safe, stay home, keep your distance, wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, and cover your coughs and sneezes."
"as the world scales up public health responses to the covid19 pandemic, countries are being urged to take decisive action to control the epidemic. who has urged all countries to ensure an appropriate balance between protecting health, preventing economic and social disruption, and respecting human rights. who is working with partners including the unaids joint programme and the global network of people living with hiv to ensure that human rights are not eroded in the response to covid-19 and to ensure that people living with or affected by hiv are offered the same access to services as others and to ensure hiv-related services continue without disruption.to mitigate potential prison outbreaks of covid19 and reduce morbidity and mortality among people in prisons and other closed settings, it is crucial that prisons and immigration detention centres are embedded within the broader public health response. this requires close collaboration between health and justice ministries and includes protocols for entry screening, personal protection measures, physical distancing, environmental cleaning and disinfection, and restriction of movement, including limitation of transfers and access for non-essential staff and visitors. in the current context it is of critical importance that countries work toward developing non-custodial strategies to prevent overcrowding in closed settings 10 . governance of prison health by a ministry of health, rather than a ministry of justice or similar, is likely to facilitate this 11 ."
"cats and dogs can carry several types of corona virus  this does not mean the cat or dog will be ill, but it is possible for both dogs and cats to get ill from some of the corona viruses.  the type of corona virus in circulation now, covid 19, has not been confirmed to cause illness in cats and dogs. too little is known as of now to say if cats and dogs can be carriers of the virus or if they can transmit virus to people.  one dog has tested positive for covid 19  it is not confirmed that the dog is a carrier of the virus. it might be traces of the virus on the dog. new tests have been taken and the result is pending.  source for more information about covid 19 and pets http://www.cnbc.com/2020/02/28/a-dog-in-hong-kong-tests-positive-for-the-coronavirus-who-confirms.html  edit: a cat in belgium is the first cat that have been confirmed infected with covid 19 http://www.cats.org.uk/help-and-advice/coronavirus/statement-relating-to-cat-in-belgium-with-coronavirus-covid-19 the cat got the infection from the owner and got ill one week after the owner did,as far as i know both cat and owner are recovering.  there is still no indication that a cat or dog can infect people with covid 19. "
"the aforementioned filter will filter microbes  yes, it is routine practice to use microfiltration in labs to sterilize solutions from microbes. 0.2 micron filters will remove all typically-found bacteria most of the time, except for the odd bacteria here and there, though this is uncommon. 0.1 micron filters certainly remove all stray bacteria that may make it through upon a single 0.2 micrometer filtration. here is a nice read on the appropriateness of 0.2 and 0.1 microfilters, which simply states that 0.2 micro filters are usually more appropriate since they additionally guarantee a better flow rate.  the aforementioned filter will not ensure filtration of viruses  these filters are not used, suitable nor effective for viruses, however. you ask specifically about the coronavirus. from a 2015 study:    coronaviruses are members of the coronaviridae group and contain a  single-stranded, positive-sense rna genome surrounded by a corona-like  helical envelope  ryan 1994 . the sars virus genome consists of 29,751  base pairs. approximately 41  of the genome is gc base pairs while 59   is ta base pairs. coronaviruses have a size range of 0.08-0.15  microns  with a mean size of 0.11 microns  see figure 1 .   this means 0.1 micron filters will not protect you from these viruses. they may help you reduce viral count in the air, which may of course be sufficient, but this would not be an adequate measure in a biological safety facility.  the cost-effectiveness of commercial air-purifiers for biosafety vs. pollution  on a advice-related note: i do not think air-purifiers are going to help you in a cost-effective manner to avoid viruses  e.g. rhinoviruses that cause the common cold, for instance , lest you stay at home all the time. you expose yourself outdoors, and carry plenty of viruses indoors on your body and in your respiratory tract  these will bypass your filtration system on the daily. being healthy and lucky enough to avoid exposure to viruses outside the house is still the best bet. i think an air purifier has a greater potential to help with smog and urban pollution, those particles are typically larger than the diameter of most microbes. "
"yes, eu citizens are foreigners. the czech regulations now only allow czech citizens, foreigners with temporary residence over 90 days and permanent residents to enter the country.   graphics by the ministry of the interior of cr  details can be found in this document.    from midnight from sunday to monday, the ban to entry is extended to  all foreigners, not only from high risk epidemic countries. foreigners  residing in the czech republic with temporary residence over 90 days  or permanent residence are excluded from this measure.      the prohibition of entry, as referred in point i. of the resolution, does not apply for:       czech citizens or foreigners with temporary or permanent residence  permit in the czech republic, who are demonstrably regularly crossing  internal borders, i.e. cross-border workers working within 100 km from  the state border,    citizens of germany, austria, poland and slovakia who are demonstrably  regularly crossing internal borders, i.e. cross-border workers working  within 100 km from the state border,    eu citizen transiting through the czech republic territory to his/her  home country - this evidence of transit must be accompanied with  signed declaration of honour,    foreigner with residence permit in another eu member state transiting  through the czech republic territory - this evidence of transit must  be accompanied with signed declaration of honour.  "
"if you rely on public transportation, use caution. if you are sick or live in an area where an outbreak has been reported, avoid it.   mass transit could increase your risk of exposure to coronavirus. luckily, transit systems are upping their cleaning regimens -- notably the new york subway system.   dr. robyn gershon, a professor of epidemiology at new york university is school of public health, has some tips: when you ride a bus or subway, sneeze or cough into your elbow. use a tissue to hold onto a pole. avoid touching your face while you are riding, and use hand sanitizer if you have it while you are commuting.   again, wash your hands before, during and after your trip.   new york gov. andrew cuomo recommends letting crowded trains or buses pass and waiting for a less crowded one. it is nearly impossible to maintain 6 feet of distance on a packed subway car.   if you have a chronic illness, find alternative means of transportation -- being in a crowded subway car or bus will significantly increase your risk of infection."
"yes, many people have. while the risk for serious disease and death fromcovid-19 is higher in people who are older or who have  certain preexistingconditions  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/health/2020/03/05/coronavirus-us-cases-symptoms-travel-deaths-prepare/4904568002/ , thousands have survived.data from the cdc published tuesday found that, as of march 28, the u.s.reported 2,692 patients who had one or more underlying health conditions. ofthose patients, 173 died. this limited data suggests that thousands of peoplewho have one or more underlying health conditions have not died.moreover, a  february who study  http://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/who-china-joint-mission-on-covid-19-final-report.pdf  ofmore than 70,000 coronavirus patients in china found that people withpreexisting conditions had higher fatality rates than those withoutpreexisting conditions: 13.2  for those with cardiovascular disease, 9.2  fordiabetes, 8.4  for hypertension, 8.0  for chronic respiratory disease, and7.6  for cancer. however, those figures suggest that large percentages ofpeople with preexisting conditions survived."
"such viruses have a natural host, which might get sick, but is usually not killed by the virus. from there, the virus can get zoonotic  jump over species barriers  and infect other animals when it comes to contact. for rabies the reservoir hosts are different, for the us these are bats, skunks and racoons. for more details, have a look on this pdf.  another example for this is the sars virus  a corona virus  which most likely lives in bats naturally and has jumped from there onto birds and from there infected humans.  "
"the current corona virus related travel bans affect mainland china only, not including hong kong and taiwan.  for the purposes of travel advice, the department of state treats china, hong kong and taiwan as 3 separate entities. at the time of writing, the currently threat levels for these 3 are :  taiwan - level 1 : exercise normal precautions  last updated january 2019   hong kong - level 2 : exercise increased caution  last updated january 31, 2020 and specifically referecing coronavirus   china - level 4 : do not travel  last updated february 2, 2020  "
"there is nothing to reconcile. pro-life does not mean  against  needless  death , it means anti-abortion.  the same is true for the opposite label: pro-choice means in favor of legal access to abortion, not necessarily in favor of all individual choices  eg regarding assisted suicide or drug policies .    people supporting  pro-life  can still support the death penalty, wars, restricted access to healthcare  for the poor , terrorist attacks against abortion providers, denial of healthcare to pregnant women even in case of a non-viable fetus, etc.  response to the lax attitude regarding human life has been minimal, as that is not their issue  abortions are. the focus during this crisis by anti-abortion groups seems to be to further attack legal access to abortion. the sba list coronavirus page or the live action news page eg focus on denying access to abortion  amp  defunding abortion providers during the crisis.  the few responses i was able to find are not from groups, but individuals, and seem to argue in the same direction as you mention: relativizing the deaths by downplaying the risk  amp  impact and saying that a weak economy will also have a price. eg:     economic hardship without a clear path to recovery imperils lives too  as evidence by a 300  spike in calls to the national suicide prevention hotline    ...  targeted isolation of and care for the elderly is entirely possible while allowing the younger and healthier to go about their lives.   others take a more utilitarian approach, weighing the  lives saved  due to denied access to abortion during the crisis vs deaths from coronavirus.  at least some individual people who hold anti-abortion views have opposed the economy   life view. the following quote is attributed to rep. cheney, though i was only able to find it by erick erickson:    letting the virus spread to your parents and grandparents to protect your 401k is not pro-life.   russell moore argues along the same lines in a nyt opinion piece, though without explicitly mentioning abortion or  pro-life . "
"because  any  coronavirus is so dangerous, much research have been done on viruses with similar properties. they are called  surrogates . because ncov is new, we do not have any studies, so we need to estimate it is behavior from previously studied similar viruses.  here:  rh   relative humidity.  tr   room temperature tgev   transmissible gastroenteritis  surrogate  mhv   mouse hepatitis  surrogate    viral survival for the tgev/mhv surrogate:   on stainless steel: 4degc   20  rh: 28 days in water/sewage  tgev : 25degc: 22 days in water/sewage  mhv : 25degc: 17 days contaminated water is a potential vehicle for exposure if aerosols are generated   for airborne human coronavirus 229e  hcv/229e :   optimal survival: 6degc   50  rh:  poor  survival: 20degc    high  relative humidity  rh      poor  in terms of 20degc but varying rh.    for sars cov-p9:   serum: 96 h   4 days sputum  amp  feces: 96 h   4 days urine: 72 h   3 days   for sars-cov  gvu6109 :   in diarrheal stool  at low ph : 4 days in respiratory/air droplets:  7 days   20degc  tr  in respiratory/air droplets:  20 days   4degc      the main route of transmission of sars cov infection is presumed to be respiratory droplets. however the virus is also detectable in other body fluids and excreta. the stability of the virus at different temperatures and relative humidity on smooth surfaces were studied. the dried virus on smooth surfaces retained its viability for over 5 days at temperatures of 22-25degc and relative humidity of 40-50 , that is, typical air-conditioned environments. however, virus viability was rapidly lost   3 log10  at higher temperatures and higher relative humidity  e.g., 38degc, and relative humidity of  95  .      we and others have reported that infectivity of sars cov  sars coronavirus  was lost after heating at 56degc for 15 minutes but that it was stable for at least 2 days following drying on plastic.      update: 2020-03-13  from  7 :      we found that viable virus could be detected in aerosols up to 3 hours   post aerosolization, up to 4 hours on copper, up to 24 hours on   cardboard and up to 2-3 days on plastic and stainless steel. hcov-19 and   sars-cov-1 exhibited similar half-lives in aerosols, with median   estimates around 2.7 hours. both viruses show relatively long viability   on stainless steel and polypropylene compared to copper or cardboard:   the median half-life estimate for hcov-19 is around 13 hours on steel   and around 16 hours on polypropylene. our results indicate that aerosol   and fomite transmission of hcov-19 is plausible, as the virus can remain   viable in aerosols for multiple hours and on surfaces up to days.    for sars-cov-2: experiments were performed   40  rh and 21-23degc.   copper  cu : 4 hours stainless  fe : 48 hours  2 days  cardboard: 24 hours  plastic: 72 hours  3 days  sars-cov-2 is most stable on plastic and stainless steel.   references:    1  20xx http://aem.asm.org/content/76/9/2712.short  2  1985 http://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/jgv/10.1099/0022-1317-66-12-2743  3  2005 http://academic.oup.com/cid/article/41/7/e67/310340  4  2009 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/s0043135409000785  5  2010 http://www.hindawi.com/journals/av/2011/734690/  6  2003 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14631830   7  2020 aerosol and surface stability of hcov-19  sars-cov-2  compared to sars-cov-1  "
"  i am wondering, how can it be enforced    by the authorities, wielding the law and their monopoly on the use of force. i think society, the mainstream media and social media will also create social pressure and consequences.  obviously the effectiveness of the ban depends on the proportion of people abiding by it. that a minority will inevitably flout the ban does not mean the ban is wholly useless.    furthermore if people violate the ban and refuse to pay the fine, what  are they going to do  put them in a crowded prison    yes, ban violators might be imprisoned.  http://english.elpais.com/spanish news/2020-03-15/members-of-the-spanish-public-face-fines-or-even-prison-if-they-disobey-lockdown-rules.html    would not that defeat the purpose    if the person is not infected, the prisoners are no worse off. if the person is infected, perhaps he or she can be put in solitary confinement or a repurposed toilet paper warehouse. whether the person is infected or not infected, society is better off.   there is no country on the planet that can cope with large proportions of their populations being hospitalised  particularly if they need intensive care or mechanical ventilation , which is one of the things that such a ban is intended to reduce the risk of. "
"your understanding is correct - there is no uk prime minister until one is appointed by the queen. in the meantime, the civil contingencies act  2004  gives the monarch  in practice, government ministers  powers to make emergency regulations, and cobra meetings can be chaired by any cabinet minister - after 9/11, these were chaired by the cabinet secretary until the pm could attend himself.  the queen will appoint as pm the person most likely to command the confidence of the house of commons. in practice, this is the person chosen as the leader of the party with the most mps - in this case, the party that the deceased pm previously led. how this is chosen, and how quickly, will depend on the party in question, although in these circumstances it seems likely that an interim leader would be speedily chosen. the labour party is rules for this are described in steve melnikoff is answer here. in the case of the conservative party, their constitution states under schedule 2 - rules for the election of the leader that:      upon the initiation of an election for the leader, it shall be the  duty of the 1922 committee to present to the party, as soon as  reasonably practicable, a choice of candidates for election as leader.  the rules for deciding the procedure by which the 1922 committee  selects candidates for submission for election shall be determined by  the executive committee of the 1922 committee after consultation of  the board.   if there is only one candidate at the time laid down for  the close of nominations, that candidate shall be declared leader of  the party.     it would be possible, then, for mps to be strongly encouraged to only nominate one candidate in order to conclude this process as quickly as possible, without a full membership vote. you may remember in 2016, for example, andrea leadson withdrew from the leadership contest leaving theresa may as the sole candidate, which meant that there was no ballot of the party membership.  in the specific case you raise, however, foreign secretary dominic raab was given the role of wouldesignated survivor  on march 22nd, and will carry out johnson is duties that he can not perform himself while he is affected by the virus. it should be noted that this role is not an official post, and if johnson were to die from the virus then it is not a given that raab would be appointed leader of the party and therefore the new pm. in fact, the article notes that this designation was challenged by some in the cabinet, who thought that the chancellor of the duchy of lancaster, michael gove, should have been given the role, and indeed  gove replaced johnson at the daily press briefing on march 27th. another contender might be jeremy hunt, against whom johnson won the conservative party leadership election in 2019.  as for other westminster systems, there is no blanket answer to that question. it is perfectly possible for a bill to be introduced that immediately designates the new prime minister on their death, as in the us system. indeed, in 2013, peter bone mp introduced the prime minister  replacement  bill, which contains the following provision:    in the event of the death or incapacitation of a person holding the  title of prime minister and first lord of the treasury, the title,  salary and functions of that role shall be conferred upon another  secretary or minister of state in accordance with the following order  of precedence--        a  person bearing the designation of deputy prime  minister     b  secretary of state with responsibility for home affairs    c  secretary of state with responsibility for defence   ...     this bill did not make it onto the statute books, but it proves the point that it is possible for an order of succession to exist in a westminster system. "
"tl dr: please wear a mask    unless your nearby hospitals are out of it, in which case give your masks to them and stay at home     the link you mentioned provides the reason that the cdc likely has in mind  though i agree it does not identify it clearly as the reason :    the worldwide supply of masks is limited. it is critical that we use them appropriately.  i.e., prioritizing them for high-risk people .   thought the cdc is now considering recommending general public wear face coverings in public.   1  compiled different government guidelines on the use of mask. you will see that some of them do recommend wearing a mask whereas others such as the uk mentions that  there is very little evidence of widespread benefit for members of the public . some governments such as the south korean  government even distribute free respiratory masks  2 kf94 per person per week in south korea .    a great summary on the use of fask masks from stanford researcher michael lin, phd-md:        also:   experts increasingly question advice against widespread use of face masks not wearing masks to protect against coronavirus is a  big mistake,  top chinese scientist says  thanks scaaahu for pointing to this article  http://youtu.be/gak7ax5hksu t 895: interview with professor kim woo-joo from korea university guro hospital, urging the importance of wearing masks. wierd -2020-03-30 - it is time to face facts, america: masks work  mirror 1   mirror 2   thanks scaaahu for pointing to this article  http://www.maskssavelives.org/  mirror : contains a lot of details and references on why wearing masks is useful. can the sars-cov-2 virus float in the air for up to 3 hours  is wearing facemasks the reason south korea, japan, singapore and hong kong have more control of covid-19     references:    1  feng, shuo, chen shen, nan xia, wei song, mengzhen fan, and benjamin j. cowling.  rational use of face masks in the covid-19 pandemic.  the lancet respiratory medicine  2020 . http://doi.org/10.1016/s2213-2600 20 30134-x  "
"talk to the school or facility about their emergency operations plan. understand the plan for continuing education and social services  such as student meal programs  during school dismissals. if your child attends a college or university, encourage them to learn about the school is plan for a covid-19 outbreak."
"yes, you should raise this issue, both with the advisor and with the university administration. students need some feedback on their work and it is the university is responsibility to provide a way for that to happen. they need to provide the channels and you need to find a way to use them.   but things are in a bit of chaos now, of course, and effective response can be slow to occur.   virtual seminars are possible using simple or sophisticated software. perhaps you can set up  or the university can  a group of students and a professor or two willing to have an online session regularly. it is not the same as face to face, but it can keep you engaged.   but at a minimum, write a lot and note where you have problems. ask a lot of questions, but make sure they are pretty focused. share what you write with your advisor, by email or by posting it somewhere.   ask your advisor directly how you are doing and ask explicitly for next steps. you will most likely get suggestions about reading. take a lot of notes on the readings and note things that puzzle you. ask about them.   if you are starting the research phase of the degree it is normally a fairly solitary effort in any case, but the advisor should be willing to review and respond to your efforts and your questions.  "
"welfare bodies want a ban on housing evictions for the next few months to support people who have lost their income because of the coronavirus outbreak. so far, however, that is not happening. the wa government has frozen all  household fees and charges  - this does not include rent. it will mean electricity, water, motor vehicle charges, the emergency services levy and public transport fares in the state will not increase until at least july 2021. "
"increase use of telehealth for counselling and sharing of messages related to safe and effective use of contraception and for selection and initiation of contraceptives. ensure adequate inventory to avoid potential stock outs at all levels of the health system. prepare advisories for users on how they can access contraceptive information, services and supplies. monitor contraceptive consumption in your area to identify any potential pitfall and shortage.increase availability and access to the contraceptives which can be used by the client without service provider support."
"travel of this sort is either permitted or it is not. if there are restrictions on travel in your area you should follow them. if there are not then it is allowed.  for example, if you were in italy or france on this day  march 21 2020  then such travel would be forbidden - it is not essential travel. as i understand it there are no restrictions on internal travel in the us - but that is the situation today and it could be different tomorrow.  you should also listen to the advice of medical professional about what is discouraged. anything you do that increases contact increases the chance of spreading covid-19 is going to make the overall situation worse - and most kinds of travel will result in increased contact. if your medical professionals are asking you not to travel unnecessarily, do not do it. "
"the amount of energy required to maintain water at some temperature over some time is simply equal to the amount of energy that the water loses to the environment over that time.  it depends on the conditions that the water is in, specifically how much heat the water is losing the environment. for example, it will take more energy to maintain water at 132 f when you place it in a cold windy environment because it is losing lots of heat in that environment.  so let is say you have a simple scenario of a pot of water sitting in room temperature. a simple energy balance on your water gives:     q  in    ha s t-t 0      where  q  in   is the input power,  h  is an effective heat transfer coefficient telling how much heat the water loses to the ambient  typical value of 5-10  w/m 2k  for a 56 c object sitting in a room with no wind ,  a s  is the surface area of your water container,  t  is the temperature of the water  56 c , and  t 0  is room temperature  25 c .  so, all you need is the surface area of your water container. then solve for the required power  q in , and multiply by time  30 min  to get the required energy.     q  in    tq  in       where  t  is the time you desire  30 min . that is how you do it.  "
"generally the irs processes your return as soon as they can. so unless there is an issue that causes them to have to stop processing returns you will get your refund in a few weeks. it does depend on direct deposit vs paper check.  usually each year they set a date in january or february when they will start processing returns, but if you file after that date they will get to them as quickly as possible.  people who are due a refund generally file early to get their money earlier. those that owe tend to file at the last minute.  "
"it is unclear how the coronavirus may affect pregnant women. in general, pregnant women may experience changes to their body that could make them more susceptible to viral respiratory infections, according to the cdc.  in the case of sars and mers, pregnant women were more at risk for severe illness, and some experienced miscarriage and stillbirth, according to the cdc.  there is no evidence that the virus can be transmitted from an infected mother to her fetus, and, in a limited number of recent cases of infants born to mothers with covid-19, none of the infants have tested positive for the virus, the cdc said."
"http://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/get-involved-how-you-can-help    governor cuomo is calling on health care professionals, schools of public health or medicine and ppe products providers and manufacturers to come forward to support the state is response.    and    we are looking for qualified health, mental health, and related professionals who are interested in supporting the state is response   all of the specialities you list in your question are health care professionals and have completed basic training in hospitals. the ny govt will triage those to see which qualifications are best suited to what positions are available. "
"technically possible, but in practice very difficult unless you are a citizen.  while some international flights to/from the philippines continue to operate, there have been massive capacity reductions, both to manila and other destinations.  more importantly, the philippines have also banned foreign visitors from countries with  local coronavirus transmission , an ill-defined group that is likely to cover virtually every larger country. this does not apply to philippine nationals and residents though: http://www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2020/3/12/philippines-expands-travel-ban-to-all-countries-with-local-covid-19-transmission.html "
" short answer    it should be noted that there are many non-pathogenic causes of sore throat, and i would suspect that you are not always distinguishing these causes from actual illness.   in most cases, it would not be possible to build a response  immunological or otherwise  to avoid reacting to these stressors.   bacteria and viruses mutate frequently in ways that make your immune system unable to properly recognize them to ward off initial infection.   your immune system recognizes specific pathogens based on structural characteristics. if those characteristics change when pathogens mutate  which happens fairly frequently , your immune system will not recognize it as readily  or initially at all .      long answer   sore throat is most commonly attributed to pharyngitis, or the inflammation of the back of the throat called the pharynx.  causes  sore throats can be caused by many things.  e.g., see here, summarized below :  first off, a sore throat can be the result of many things unrelated to illness:    allergies dryness irritants excessive talking,singing,shouting,etc. muscle strain gastroesophageal reflux disease  gerd    as a result, at least 30    higher in adults  of reported sore throat cases  and supposedly many more unreported cases  are not due to any type of illness.   further, a number of pathogens can cause a sore throat:   viruses   rhinovirus, coronavirus, influenza, parainfluenza, adenoviruses, epstein-barr, etc.  see here for one estimate of relative etiologies .   bacteria   a number of bacterial infections can cause a sore throat. the most common is streptococcus pyogenes  aka  strep a  .     it turns out that pathogen-caused pharyngitis is fairly common. supposedly 10  of adults with sore throats have strep, and around 70  of children pharyngitis cases seen by doctors are either virally or bacterially caused.    however, it should be noted that only 20-30  of children and just 5-10  of adults have bacteria to blame for their sore throat, with viral infections being much more common.  source: idsa .   sore throat frequency  it turns out that sore throats are fairly common  jones  2004  determined that about 7.5  of people have a sore throat in any three-month period. further, on average, adults get a sore throat two to three times a year and children about five times a year  tamparo 2011 and rutter  amp  newby 2015 , so your personal experience is fairly average.  because viral causes and non-pathogenic causes make up an overwhelming percentage of overall sore throat cases, it should not be surprising that most sore throats clear up without the use of any antibiotics.   as for those that are caused by pathogens:  why no immunity   bacteria and viruses both mutate fairly quickly  see antigenic variation, antigenic drift and antigenic shift , so it should not be surprising that you are capable of having an immune response to pathogens throughout life.    if we consider just strep alone, it mutates/reemerges with improved fitness frequently  e.g., see bao et al 2016 and their citations  and see sanjuan et al.  2010  for a reviewof viral mutation rates.    so not only are there a number of pathogens that can cause sore throat, but each of these pathogens can mutate. that leaves you with a fairly sizable number of potential invaders that can illicit a sore throat.   let is see how your immune system responds:  your immune system contains cells that can be split into two broad groups: cells that belong to the adaptive immune system, and cells which belong to the innate immune system.  see here for a simple explanation .   innate immune system: consists of cells responsible for initial detection of pathogens, recruitment of other immune cells, activation of the complement system, engulfment and  more immediate  destruction of pathogens.  adaptive immune system: consists of cells which coordinate to develop a memory of the infections they have seen previously in order to mount a faster, more pronounced immune response to repeat pathogens.   depending on the kind of foreign invasion, two different immune responses can occur in either of these 2 broader  systems : either a humoral response involving antibodies or a cell-mediated repsponse.    a general feature of the immune system is that these mechanisms rely on detecting structural features of the pathogen or toxin that mark it as distinct from host cells  see chaplin 2010 for a review . the mechanisms permitting recognition of pathogenic/toxic foreign structures can be broken down into two general categories:    hard-wired responses encoded by genes that recognize molecular patterns shared both by many microbes and toxins that are not present in the mammalian host. this is the innate system described above. responses that are encoded by gene elements that somatically rearrange to assemble antigen-binding molecules with extreme specificity for individual unique foreign structures. this is the adaptive system described above.   antibodies recognizes a unique/specific molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, and binds to it to tag it for immune attack.        because the adaptive system is composed of small numbers of cells with specificity for any individual pathogen the responding cells must proliferate after encountering the antigen in order to attain sufficient numbers to mount an effective response against the microbe or the toxin.  source: chaplin 2010 .    this means that you can still experience some mild symptoms due to the invading pathogen.     the important take-away from all this, though, is that your immune response relies on structural  markers  on pathogens in order to recognize them. this is true for both innate and adaptive immune responses. if the physical/structural properties of a pathogen change  due to antigenic processes and mutations as mentioned above  your immune system will be slower  and possibly ineffective  in responding to an attack.    the result, then, could be another one of those sore throats...     citations   bao, yun-juan et al.  phenotypic differentiation of streptococcus pyogenes populations is induced by recombination-driven gene-specific sweeps.  scientific reports 6  2016 : 36644. pmc. web. 17 mar. 2017. chaplin, d. d.  2010 . overview of the immune response. journal of allergy and clinical immunology, 125 2 , s3-s23. jones, roger  2004 . oxford textbook of primary medical care. oxford university press. p. 674. isbn 9780198567820. retrieved 4 august 2016. rutter, paul professor  newby, david  2015 . community pharmacy anz: symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. elsevier health sciences. p. 19. isbn 9780729583459. sanjuan, r., nebot, m. r., chirico, n., mansky, l. m.,  amp  belshaw, r.  2010 . viral mutation rates. journal of virology, 84 19 , 9733-9748. tamparo, carol  2011 . fifth edition: diseases of the human body. philadelphia, pa: f.a. davis company. p. 356. isbn 978-0-8036-2505-1.   "
"many people diagnosed with the coronavirus will feel like they have the flu.  the main difference between covid-19 and the flu is that there is a lack of immunity in the community for the new coronavirus because there is no vaccine.  another difference is that the coronavirus appears to take about six to seven days to spread between people, whereas the flu can spread between people in four days."
"to date there is no epidemiological information to suggestthat contact with goods, products or vehicles shipped from covid-19 affectedcountries have been the source of covid-19 in humans.for these reasons, there is no disinfection recommendationsfor any goods and products coming from covid-19 affected countries given thatthere is no available evidence that these products pose a risk to publichealth. who will continue to closely monitor the evolution ofcovid-19, and will update the recommendations as needed."
"experience from previous disease outbreaks has shown the disruptive effect on health service delivery and the consequences for diseases such as malaria. the 2014-2016 ebola outbreak in guinea, liberia and sierra leone, for example, undermined malaria control efforts and led to a massive increase in malaria-related illness and death in the 3 countries.in recent weeks, the covid-19 pandemic has tested the resilience of robust health systems around the world. recognizing the heavy toll that malaria exacts on vulnerable populations in countries with fragile health systems, who underlines the critical importance of sustaining efforts to prevent, detect and treat malaria. in all regions, protective measures should be utilized to minimize the risk of covid-19 transmission between patients, communities and health providers. who has developed detailed guidance for health workers in the context of the covid-19 outbreak response, as well as operational guidance for safely maintaining essential health services."
"i read this article when it came out. i do not think the point is about whether or not people behave like particles in a fluid medium, but about how quickly people can spread the coronavirus when randomly interacting with one another in an open space  in my opinion, this model would be a reasonably good representation for a crowded area like a mall lobby or a beach where people are moving around more or less randomly .  however, even in other settings when people are not moving around randomly, if anything, people are more likely to interact with each other in restricted spaces like sidewalks where there is less choice of where to position yourself spatially. "
" charity navigator  http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm bay content.view cpid 7779 , which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. you can give blood through the  american red cross  http://www.redcrossblood.org/donate- blood/dlp/coronavirus--covid-19--and-blood-donation.html , and  world central kitchen  http://wck.org/  has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. more than 30,000 coronavirus-related  gofundme fund- raisers  http://www.gofundme.com/c/act/covid19  have started in the past few weeks.  the sheer number of fund-raisers  means more of them are likely to fail   http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/style/gofundme-coronavirus.html to meet their goal, though. "
"luzon island  where manila is located  in philippines decided to ban outbound international flights, but the decision was reversed a few days later:  http://www.rappler.com/business/254885-philippine-airlines-cebu-pacific-airasia-flight-cancelations-coronavirus-luzon-lockdown:    the airline will announce the status of its international flights from march 20 to april 12 at a later date, as it coordinates with authorities.   http://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1096970:    the department of tourism  dot  has lauded the lifting of the travel ban on outbound passengers, except filipino tourists, in line with the luzon-wide enhanced community quarantine.   peru also has a lockdown: http://www.tennessean.com/in-depth/news/health/2020/03/20/americans-stranded-peru-coronavirus-lockdown/2873582001/    some found out when a hotel clerk banged on their door late sunday night to say they had 24 hours to get out of the country   list: http://www.theguardian.com/travel/2020/mar/20/coronavirus-travel-ban-advice-updates-uk-countries-restrictions-fco-warnings:   albania and slovenia: all flights suspended. jordan: no commercial flights in or out of jordan, and all land and sea borders closed. luxembourg: all passenger flights suspended from 23 march. pakistan: all flights suspended until 4 april tajikistan: all flights suspended from 20 march etc.   other lists:   http://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-news/1580226297.htm http://www.aseanbriefing.com/news/coronavirus-asia-asean-live-updates-by-country  asian countries   "
"the cdc covers the cost of testing itself, however, this may not be the only type of cost incurred.    a recent new york times article presents a case study of exactly the sort of scenario described in the question.  americans who were living in china and evacuated from wuhan did not have health insurance in the us and were given a  3,918 bill for care during quarantine, including  2,598 for ambulance transportation. neither ultimately tested positive.    he did receive a document upon leaving quarantine directing him to contact a government email address with any medical bills. he sent an email on feb. 24 detailing the charges and asking what would be done.     my question is why are we being charged for these stays, if they were mandatory and we had no choice in the matter   mr. wucinski wrote in his message.    he has not received a response, he said.   since then, after being contacted by the times, the hospital stated the bill was in error:    when contacted by the new york times, a rady children is hospital spokesman said the physicians  bill had been sent in error and that the family would not be held responsible for the charges.   ..but it is not clear whether this is a matter of policy or a public relations move by the hospital, nor is it clear how these matters will be handled going forward. it also does not yet resolve the  2600 ambulance bill  of course this is all still pending .  the government can order mandatory quarantines, but as far as who pays:     there is no uniform practice,  said lawrence gostin, a professor of global health law at georgetown university.  they do have the powers, but they have almost never used them in modern times.    without some new government intervention, it seems that for now costs will either be charged to patients or simply absorbed by the treating facilities  by not billing .    the american hospital association and american nurses association on feb 27, 2020 have asked for the government to fund care related to the epidemic. it seems likely that there will be further political fights over what exactly is done next.    update: as of march 4th, 2020, an agreement was reached in the house on a bill for covid-2019 funding, which is expected to pass there and later in the senate. this bill does not address how to deal with care and testing for the uninsured, though it includes state and local funding. it is unclear at this time how those funds could/will be used:    congress did not explicitly address how to handle funding for mandatory quarantines or the uninsured. the package would send  950 million in state and local grants, with half of the money due within 30 days. states will receive a minimum of  4 million.   http://www.politico.com/news/2020/03/04/coronavirus-funding-package-121209 "
"the situation is chaotic and it is difficult to make a prediction or give firm advice. either path could be better than the other, depending on the judgments of others.   however, one prediction that i can make with confidence is that universities sending out grades will also be sending out explanations that extraordinary measures were taken in extraordinary times. furthermore those receiving grades and such will understand that the situation was chaotic and that the ordinary procedures need to be modified.   if it were me, i would probably opt for the grades rather than pass/fail. if necessary, i would just explain that the general chaos affected my performance somewhat and the grades may not accurately reflect my potential. i would suspect that letter writers would back that up. but that is partly because i would have a history of excellent performance generally and not one that would be questioned in the absence of the current situation.  this is the hypothetical me speaking, not the real me.   but the pass fail option can also be explained fairly easily that the risks were higher due to general disruption and you considered it the safer option as the rules were changing, making earlier assumptions invalid.   i expect that there will be more emphasis put on interviews and on letters of recommendation for a while until things settle down again. but that is just a guess.  "
"there is no specific data on this question yet, according to gregory poland,director of the mayo clinic is vaccine research group. however, we do know thatsomeone infected with the virus may begin showing symptoms anywhere betweenone and 14 days after catching the virus, most commonly around five days, according to the who  http://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/q-a-coronaviruses . the peak viral shedding occurs during the first five days after the onset ofsymptoms. my guess is that within a few days of being exposed, these patientsare beginning to shed virus,  poland said.a recent report from the cdc studying an outbreak at a care home in washingtonstate found that among 23 residents who tested positive for the virus, 13 wereasymptomatic. within a week, 10 of those 13 developed symptoms, with onset at3 days."
"it is somewhat hard to answer this one. you obviously concerned, but not enough to forfeit the course and cancel the trip. you are a bit afraid, but not enough so to overcome you  flight shame  and hop on a direct plane.   however, you are afraid enough to consider either spending a 25-hour trip on a flixbus or a 13-hour train trip standing on the corridor. for some reason you are more afraid of paris than cologne or barcelona, and more afraid of trains than buses.  at this point, my honest suggestion is that you do whatever makes you feel most comfortable.   given that you have already decided to travel, and to travel by either train or bus, the choice between those two matters little.  on a train, you will be in a carriage with 120 people. a dozen or so in close proximity to you. in a bus you will be with 60 people. a dozen or so in close proximity to you. there is no evidence that one is significantly riskier than the other.  if you want to minimise your time with people, take a plane or rent a car. "
"yes you can.    according to government advice for people with animals, if you have a dog that needs walking, you should count this as the one form of exercise you take every day.    it is important that you should remain 2m away from anyone outside your household while walking your dog.    there is no guidance from the government on whether your dog should be on a lead, but some parks, including the royal parks, insist on this as a rule, to help ensure people maintain social distance.    as well as your daily exercise, you may also leave the house to care for a vulnerable person, and this care may involve walking their dog.    when you do this, you should always remember to wash your hands before and after handling the dog, and remain 2m away from the owner."
"this may seem counterintuitive, but constructing and administering a properly random testing paradigm is difficult and time-consuming. it is not as though we can gather everyone in a big room, put their names in a hat, and then call them out one-by-one to get tested. there are a number of different issues that need to be resolved, e.g.:   people are not randomly distributed. in the real world they cluster by race, religion, economic status, political affiliation, occupation, and other demographic factors. a purely random sample  unless it is immense  will likely underrepresent or overrepresent specific populations. people are not easy to find. say that joe smith is someone randomly chosen to be tested. what if we can not reach him by phone or email  what if we send a testing kit to him and he neglects to return it, or uses the kit incorrectly  what if we send a iswabber  to his house, only to find he is not home, or refuses to open the door  depending on methodology, sampling in this context can have massive non-participation, and the more non-participants we see, the weaker our statistical results are. people are not infected entirely randomly. infections are a markov chain, where one must be in specific kinds of contact with an infected person to have a chance of being infected, and then  if infected  must be in the same specific kinds of contact with uninfected people to pass it on. modeling a markov chain as though it were purely random misses important aspects of the way a disease is spread, and will skew results badly. perhaps most importantly, the spread of a pandemic is a fluid situation, not a stable characteristic of individuals. collecting physical samples from people requires a tremendous amount of time and labor  driving to a home and collecting a sample, driving to another home and collecting a sample, repeat, repeat, drive back to homes where people were absent and try again . even if we could muster a veritable army of iswabbers  for our random sampling of nearly 400 million people, we can expect the actually swabbing to take at least a week  generously , and in a week the number of infections has doubled and doubled again. the first people swabbed are not being drawn from the same statistical population as the last people swabbed, and our statistics will suffer. and then we have to ask about our swabbers, who are all part of the population we are sampling, and all of whom have been exposed to large numbers of potentially infected people...   the upshot is that if we were to take the time to properly construct and implement a large-scale random sample, the disease would be spreading while we were designing the methodology, the disease would be spreading while we were implementing the testing, and by the time we finished running the data we collected the disease would have spread further, making our results all but useless. i am not saying they would be entirely useless -- with appropriate statistical manipulations we can account for many of these issues -- but whatever use it has will be for future epidemiologists looking back on this pandemic. "
"yes, but do not forget about social distancing.  regular exercise can help keep you physically and mentally healthy during the outbreak. you should feel free to talk a walk, go to the park and get outside, but maintain at least 6 feet between yourself and others during that time. do not pack into a crowded park, beach or hiking trail. instead, head to an area with fewer people or exercise at off-hours, when not as many people are out and about.  since covid-19 can live on hard surfaces, and most playgrounds are not cleaned and disinfected regularly, you may want to reconsider bringing your child there, especially if you live in an area with ongoing coronavirus transmissions. if you do decide to go to the playground, make sure your child stays at least 6 feet away from other children."
"the u.s. postal service, ups and fedex are still delivering the mail, but to continue doing so requires a healthy work force, and at least 20 postal workers have tested positive for the virus. workers for ups and fedex  share similar fears  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/coronavirus-post-office- workers.html  about contracting the virus, especially at warehouses where the mail is handled. increasingly, letter carriers and delivery people are leaving packages on doorsteps and limiting close interaction with residents. a recent study found that the virus disintegrates over about 24 hours on cardboard, suggesting that packages may have only low levels of the virus -- unless the delivery person has coughed or sneezed on it or has handled it with contaminated hands. if you are concerned about the risk, wipe down packages with disinfectant wipes and wash your hands."
"all of the considerations described above apply to malaria-eliminating countries and those preventing re-establishment of the disease: efforts must be sustained to prevent, detect and treat malaria cases while preventing the spread of covid-19 and ensuring the safety of those who deliver the services. countries that are nearing malaria elimination must protect their important gains and avoid malaria resurgences. countries that have eliminated malaria must remain vigilant for any imported cases of malaria that may be occurring to prevent reintroduction of the disease."
"that is right. well, the milken institute is tracking the development of a whole bunch of potential treatments and vaccines. they have identified literally dozens of different candidates in the works on both the vaccine side, the treatment side - over 40 different compounds being looked at for the vaccine. but a vaccine is definitely a ways off. i mean, 12 to 18 months is an optimistic estimate out there.  in regard to treatments, there are clinical trials underway to look at the safety, efficacy of different drugs, from antivirals to antibody treatments. with one candidate, an antiviral called remdesivir, some early results are expected later this spring, and there is a lot of hope out there. but obviously it is important to see what the studies find."
"a novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified. the virus causing coronavirus disease 2019  covid-19 , is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold. a diagnosis with coronavirus 229e, nl63, oc43, or hku1 is not the same as a covid-19 diagnosis. patients with covid-19 will be evaluated and cared for differently than patients with common coronavirus diagnosis."
"high profile international sporting events such as the olympics or world cups as well as international religious events such as the hajj count as mass gatherings. however, lower profile conferences and events can also meet who is definition of a mass gathering. an event counts as a  mass gatherings  if the number of people it brings together is so large that it has the potential to strain the planning and response resources of the health system in the community where it takes place. you need to consider the location and duration of the event as well as the number of participants. for example, if the event takes place over several days in a small island state where the capacity of the health system is quite limited then even an event with just a few thousand participants could place a big strain on the health system and then be considered a  mass gathering  event. conversely, if the event is held in a big city in a country with a large, well-resourced health system and lasts just a few hours, the event may not constitute a  mass gathering  event."
"for a beginner, i would say the sir model is a great place to start:   http://idmod.org/docs/general/model-sir.html  numberphile did a great video on using sir to predict covid-19:  http://www.youtube.com/watch v k6nlfcbazgo  hopefully this can get you started on your journey  "
"we do not know.    because covid-19 is a new virus, we do not know whether pregnant women are more susceptible than the general population. based on data from previous coronaviruses, like sars and mers, some experts believe that pregnant women may be at higher risk for severe illness and death, but that data is limited and far from conclusive.  for now, neither the cdc nor the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists recommend any specific guidance for pregnant women beyond what they recommend to the general public."
"the road to the future is never smooth and upward trending. it is bumpy. in the current chaotic situation, expect chaos in the short term. others, such as myself, have experienced career setbacks due to circumstances we can not control. i finished my doctorate at a time when the market for mathematicians was one of zero demand and massive supply. but over time, the bumps eased out for us. perhaps, and we hope, they will for you also. but prediction of the future is an uncertain business riddled with errors among fantastic claims.   unfortunately too many governments around the world are behaving incompetently, making everything worse. but in the long run, climate change will probably have a bigger effect than the current pandemic. and it is also being ignored by some governments.   however, unless we are willing to give up scientific study altogether and unless we are willing to give up educating the citizenry for the future, there is a lot of incentive to continue as we have as much as we can within the constraints that we see. universities have many incentives to maintain their services and their structures. most feel an obligation to faculty, students, society, and science itself. those are strong positive forces.   the incentives, however, need to be met with action. we do not have answers yet to some important questions. one of the questions is how meaningful and complete we can make an education without face to face interactions. another is how we can continue some sorts of research, say lab sciences, without physical labs staffed by researchers. these are hard questions. it will take some innovation. conferences could, in principle, move to virtual space, just as  classroom  education is doing now.   fortunately we are in a better place today than even 20 years ago with fairly ubiquitous internet communication. some of the problems are probably solvable relatively quickly.   but we do not know how many students will seek higher education in the next couple of years. we do not know how taxing authorities will deal with funding education in the face of economic disruption. some, but not all, signs are positive. but uncertainty is high. budgets, needs for faculty, working conditions, etc. all in flux.   i suspect that the careers of people in your situation will be disrupted for a while, as mine was. but i also suspect that the situation will improve for you, though it may take some years to do so. provided, of course, that we do not kill the planet along the way.   try to find a way to be healthy and happy, even if your short term goals must change. try to use the internet to stay connected. try to stay as productive as possible given the constraints. apply for what positions there are, and for positions that you might not have considered if times were better.  "
"illness due to covid-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. however, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. it is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the covid-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones. we can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. first and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings. learn more about how to protect yourself at http://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public"
"no. there are some interesting coincidences in the 1981 fiction novel, which says  a severe pneumonia-like illness will spread around the globe  around the year 2020. modern editions of the book call the biological strain  wuhan-400,  and the current coronavirus outbreak started in wuhan, china.  but there are important differences between the book and reality. the original version of the book called the strain the  gorki-400,  in reference to a russian locality, before it was later changed to the  wuhan-400.  in the book, the virus was man-made, while scientists believe the novel coronavirus started in animals and jumped to humans. and in the book, the virus had a 100  mortality rate. early estimates of the mortality rate for this coronavirus outbreak range from 2-4 ."
"well, i am no epidemiologist and have neither the required data nor their simulation tools at hand. however:  while testing is of course needed, i doubt that more testing can compensate for lack of distancing now.   also, there is japan with social distancing but low numbers of tests with slow curve, and south korea does not only test but also practice social distancing. there are also countries with lots of tests / inhabitant and heavy increases, italy for example.    how are screening tests different from what is done now.   slight disclaimer: i am in germany, so i know most details about the strategy here. afaik, it is not that different in the us, though. at least, also here people are complaining that they get tests refused and people are talking that test capacities are not unlimited - but it is not clear to me whether people are sent home who should be tested according to a doctor ordering that test or only those who go/drive to the test centers because they think they should be tested.   what is done right now in most countries  including italy, germany, south korea  is testing populations that are at a non-negligible risk of having contracted the virus. looking at the current  mar 19  numbers of positive tests among all tests  germany  and using lr  of better than 20  below in parentheses and expected 61 and lr- of better than 1/20  below in parentheses , expected 1/61  see long explanation here      pos tests/tests   ppv   1-npv ------------ ----------------- ------------- ------------------ usa   11     88    72      0.2    0.6     germany   3.9     south korea   2.8     64    36      0.05    0.01       ppv   probability of having sars-cov-2 after the test was positive 1-npv   probability of having sars-cov-2 after the test was negative    there is the implicit assumption that everyone is tested with that same test - which is not true, the south koreans by now may have better validation data, but i do not know this   screening means testing the normal population, which  still  has much lower prevalence of sars-cov-2. assuming the dark number is 99 x the known case count  i.e. we have 100x as many infected as positive test results ,     100 cases/inhabitants   ppv   1-npv ------------ ----------------------- ---------------- ------------------ low risk   1 in 10000   0.01     0.6     0.2       lt 0.01   usa   0.36     18     6.7      0.2    0.6     south korea   1.6     50    25      0.05    0.01     germany   2.0     54  28      0.03    0.1    germany    0.4     20     7.4       lt 0.01    0.02       with that assumed large dark numbers, germany and south korea would both have prevalences by now where using the existing test on the general population would start to make sense, as that would mean only 1 false positive case per true positive case. on the other hand, with prevalence in the single digit percent we would be in the region where frieden argues that testing of the general population does not make sense because it makes more sense to tell people to stay at home and away from contacts  which is the case for germany - and since the numbers are not growing as fast in south korea, their dark number is probably much lower .   in the low risk population  where frieden says testing would make sense , we would have only correct 1 out of about 200 positive cases. the ppv is for many practical considerations too low: screening needs very good tests, with very high sensitivity and specificity. sensitivity, because it is crucial here not to overlook truly positive cases, and specificity because the true positives are otherwise hidden in army of false positives.   to some extent, it is often possible to trade in some sensitivity for speificity and vice versa, e.g. with hiv test for blood donors, we do exactly this: we choose a very high sensitivity  so we can be sure not to infect anyone , and accept low specificity. so low, that a blood donor with positive hiv test is not even told that they were tested positive. instead, another test is applied  preferably by another manufacturer, because that adds more information than duplicate testing with the same kit , and if that is still positive, yet another one  a more elaborate one . after that iirc it is still more probable that the blood donor does not have hiv, but they is be looking into it and taking anothe blood sample.   and the decision for the donated blood is anyways to throw it away just to be on the safe side .   in principle we could do the same for sars-cov-2. chaining lab tests would mean an enormous burden to the health system of dealing with false positives  and possibly re-testing people  at a time where we do not have unlimited health resources and where the probability that the false positive anyways catches the virus next day or so is non-negligible. this makes this strategy that starts from testing low risk population a complete waste of ressources  even if we had unlimited capacity for testing . this may change in the future when we have tests where proper full validation has shown that they have very good specificity and a useful sensitivity.  what we do currently, is not very different though in principle: we do currently chain two independent tests, just that the lab test comes 2nd: first a doctor comes and tests whether you are high risk group because you had contact with confirmed cases  maybe even 2nd order contacts  or you show symptoms. then comes the lab test.   now the germany  line in the table above is an interesting additional point. the prevalence there is from the influenza sentinel data from week 11  last week . these are samples collected from people who were not sent to sars-cov-2 tests, but who went to a doctor with flu-like symptoms. 1 out of 251 was sars-cov-2 positive  and also influenza positive . the practically important point is: what did we miss because that sars-cov-2 case was overlooked  or would have been, had they not been in the sentinel sampling   actually, nothing: someone with the flu is told to stay at home and not infect anyone else pretty much like someone with sars-cov-2  particularly now since it would also relieve the health system if the seasonal influenza would be overcome a bit faster .   testing in areas with few infections  frieden does not propose screening, though: he proposes testing people who have been in contact with infected ones. which apparently did not work out in seattle, from what i read due to a lack of tests - but it did work out in germany where it allowed to completely stop the first  small  outbreak in january.  here, the  had  2nd order  contact to infected person  is the first test in the chain. this is a containment strategy, not a delay strategy.   in order for this to work, we need a two  ingredients : we must be able to trace the contacts  and better also 2nd order contacts , and people sent to quarantine must obey this quarantine.   comparison germany - south korea  mainly   ... the us is left as excercise to the informed reader   south korea apparently makes extensive use of autamated tracing of people in a fashion that would be completely unconstitutional in germany.  south korea does use social distancing: according to wikipedia they also shut down kindergardens, schools, and universities postponed their semester start. it did not have quite the same impact on overall economy that we see in germany now. their shutdown apparently was not all over the country, but earlier: they did that when they had 1000 cases.  apparently the population did a whole lot of that volountarily: the wiki page says the streets of daegu were empty on feb 20  when they had a total of 100 cases . in contrast, germany now has 15 k cases, and pretty much an official shutdown since the weekend in terms of kindergardens/schools/universities, pubs/clubs/... and apparently there is a sizeable sub-population that gives in to the urgent need of having their own big     parties since pubs are closed.  i can only speak from what i read in the news, i live in rural germany where my sports clubs canceled everything - but the neighbors had a 4 generation party  not that many people, but...  for their new house yesterday.  otoh, we have 8.5 confirmed cases per 100k inhabitants here, so even with that factor 100 for dark number, we are still below 1   prevalence now   what seems to be similar: in south korea young adults are the ones who spread the virus. similar in germany  more middle-aged initially  those who can afford to make skiing holidays in the alps , now the corona-parties are a young adult thing  i believe east asia is in general more on the alert than we were. mers and sars are cited as reasons, but of course overall high population density also means a permanently increased risk of infectious disesases. the wiki page about covid-19 in south korea indicates similar testing capacity for south korea  10k tests/day  51 mio inhabitants  and germany  16k tests/day  80 mio inhabitants    some countries with more or less flat curves and more or less testing  per mio inhabitants :   south korea so far done about 6000 tests / mio inhabitants italy 7300 / mio  maybe a bit late, but the main thing that was late in italy is that for a while they did not realize they had sars-cov-2  japan only 117/mio - but they have a very slow growth, still less than 1000 cases and their curve is decidedly flattening. japan distances socially since feb 25th  incl. e.g. to stay at home and not go to a doctor with only mild cold-like symptoms  at 167 cases in the whole country. singapore practices certain measures of social distancing since late january when they had  lt  10 cases.  did not find testing numbers, though  norway has 6440 tests/mio inhabitants. hopeful look at curve suggests that a slight flattening may take place. they started their lockdown at    700 cases, a bit more than a week ago. germany has    2100 tests/mio. 100 k tests were done in week 11, current capacity is about 30 k tests/day  is currently ramping up .  substantial flattening at the earliest expected in about 2 weeks  usa: according to wikipedia 300 / mio inhabitants, but the german newspaper cites 3.5x as many tests, that would be 1100 / mio inhabitants.  the difference may be whether private lab tests are counted or not     the dutch test  ... is about antibodies whereas the other tests look for virus rna. these tests again good for different things:   the dutch test tells whether there has been sufficient exposure to the virus  and sufficient time thereafter  to build antibodies.  once we know more about this, it may also tell whether one is immune against sars-cov-2  as they say, this is also important for getting an idea about the dark numbers of people who have been infected, but had so mild symptoms they did not realize it. the other tests tell whether you currently have the virus  and are contagious .  screening for active cases needs this test - the more so as the antibody test may become positive only a while after one is already contagious.    simulitis  the washington post has simulations of the spread of a  easier, more basic  disease called simulitis with 4 scenarios, ranging from no measures at all over a not quite perfect quarantine to moderate and extensive social distancing  25   and 10   of the population run around as always, rest stays where they are . i highly recommend reading, but here are some runs i just did:    brown are active cases, violet cured/immune and blue susceptible persons.  important findig for this question: in the first part of the quarantine simulation, the quarantine worked an noone got out  1st hump . note that this hump has roughly the same height as the moderate social distancing hump, and leaky quarantine is worse  though the simulation does not get any newly infected into a new quarantine - i would say the quarantine situation may be less like real quarantine and more like totally closed borders vs. not-quite-free movement between two countries .  "
"around the world, a number of senior officials from iran to australia have contracted the virus. the british prime minister, boris johnson, announced on march 27 that  he tested positive  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/world/europe/boris-johnson- coronavirus.html . justin trudeau, the canadian prime minister, said he was putting himself in isolation after his wife tested positive.  president trump tested negative for the coronavirus  http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2020/03/14/us/politics/ap-us- virus-outbreak-trump.html , officials said. mr. trump had been in contact with two brazilian officials who tested positive days after meeting him in florida. mayor francis suarez of miami, who also met the brazilian delegation, said he tested positive. at least three members of congress have tested positive for the coronavirus, including senator rand paul."
"governments worldwide have made major mistakes in trying to contain the outbreak. but as the virus spreads, south korea, singapore and china have been more effective than others at bringing it under control. south korea has aggressively monitored infections, such as by  checking the body temperatures  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/25/world/asia/daegu-south-korea- coronavirus.html  of all incoming and outgoing passengers at train stations and other places. officials operate drive-through testing centers and send out mobile phone alerts to citizens when new cases are reported in their districts. singapore, which has focused on early diagnosis, isolation and contact tracing, has also seen its rate of new cases drop. in china, new reported infections were cut to just 24 in a recent headcount  from more than 3,500 a day  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/health/coronavirus-pandemic-who.html  in late january. in addition to strict travel limitations, chinese people are required to wear masks outdoors and have their temperatures checked at the doors of office buildings, stores, restaurants, hotels, apartments and public transit stations."
"cwop stands for cancelled without prejudice. the phrase without prejudice means that the reason for cancellation is not to have a negative impact on your future applications for visas or for admission to the us.  therefore, you ought to be able to apply for a new visa. however, i am not sure what the rules are surrounding opt  for that, you should ask at expatriates , so there may be something going on with that that would prevent it.  the odd thing here, however, is that visas are usually cancelled without prejudice in response to some sort of administrative action. for example, when one applies for a new visa before the old one is expired, the old visa will be cancelled without prejudice. a visa cancellation while the bearer is en route to the us would normally be a cancellation with prejudice, because the bearer has been found inadmissible for some reason.  on the other hand, if you were prevented from flying to the us because of the travel ban related to covid-19, i would think that your visa should not have been cancelled at all.  so i wonder whether there is some additional fact that you have not mentioned that might explain exactly what happened. if so, that might also have a bearing on the likelihood that a future visa application would succeed. "
"china has also fast-tracked their own vaccine development, with testing in humans  news of march 18 :    cansino bio and its collaborators at the academy of military medical sciences  institute of biotechnology secured a quick chinese regulatory go-ahead to start human testing of their recombinant coronavirus vaccine, the company said in a disclosure  pdf  to the hong kong stock exchange on wednesday.  ...     the green light was doled out very quickly. it was only tuesday when cansino said it had filed the pre-ind review application for the vaccine to authorities and was in the process of a rolling submission of technical documents.  ...     meanwhile, amid growing numbers of infections in the u.s., the fda has allowed a phase 1 study of moderna is mrna vaccine without animal data. on monday, the biotech said researchers at the national institutes of health dosed the first subject.  ...     besides cansino and moderna, many other companies are also working on vaccines for sars-cov-2.  ...    i cannot tell you how much  bending of the rules  this is in china, since i am not familiar with their regulations. but the timing of the chinese announcement was roughly two days later after the us announced the first moderna vaccine dose having been injected into a human  on march 16 . interestingly perhaps, china is also developing a mrna vaccine  jointly developed by the chinese centre for disease control and prevention, tongji university and stermina in shanghai , but this one is still undergoing animal testing in china, with human testing announced to begin mid-april.  so yeah, the us  niaid/moderna  and china  cansino  are now basically in a  race for the  vaccine  cure . others will probably join. i suspect they might also benefit from regulatory fast-tracks, possibly depending how well politically connected they are in their test jurisdictions.  the eu has given curevac a grant to work on a mrna vaccine similar to the moderna one  however no human tests have begun with that--they have been announced for june. the who said that over 40 concrete vaccine candidates have been proposed, with at least a hundred in development.   the wsj reported  without a lot of specifics on the regulatory side that :    counting drugs approved for other diseases, there are 254 clinical trials testing treatments or vaccines for the virus, many spearheaded by universities and government research agencies, with hundreds more trials planned. researchers have squeezed timelines that usually total months into weeks or even days.  "
" charity navigator  http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm bay content.view cpid 7779 , which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. more than 20,000 coronavirus-related  gofundme fund- raisers  http://www.gofundme.com/c/act/covid19  have started in the past few weeks.  the sheer number of fund-raisers  means more of them are likely to fail  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/style/gofundme-coronavirus.html  to meet their goal, though. "
"for what is worth it, al jazeera quoted a third-party defence of the who:    jeremy konyndyk, a senior policy fellow at the center for global development, said the last thing the us and the who need right now is this sort of a fight.     it is a distraction from the need to focus on defeating this pandemic,  he told al jazeera.     no virus has a nationality and it is down to how the countries have handled the threat. the core information that was needed to understand this risk was available by the end of january - and it was available through the who. that information still is very accurate in terms of transmissibility and lethality of this disease, so that really should have been all for any country to take it seriously,  konyndyk said.     in general, i think the who has been further ahead of the curve and understanding the risk of the virus than trump is own administration has, so i do not think who is to be blamed for the us is sluggish response.     and also added this on their own:    the who declared covid-19 a public health emergency on january 30, nearly a month before trump tweeted:  the coronavirus is very much under control in the usa,  and a full 43 days before he declared a national emergency in the us.   i will accept a better answer in the sense that i asked in the question, i.e. if the who themselves explicitly defended their record/actions in response to those republican accusations.    similarly the guardian has an article defending the who with extensive quotes from experts and among those they have quoted a who official too  lawrence gostin :    who is total annual budget is about  2.5bn, and contributions from member states have not significantly increased over three decades.     the who is budget is around the equivalent of a large us hospital, which is utterly incommensurate with its global responsibilities,  said lawrence gostin, a public health law professor at georgetown university.  he also holds a who position, as made clear later in the article.   so, if the us president were a global health leader, he would be leading a call to at minimum double the who budget in the face of this pandemic.   ...      i have been a longstanding critic and i have described their performance on ebola as catastrophic. but i think overall their performance on this outbreak has been, not perfect, but pretty good,  ashish jha, a public health professor at harvard, said.     they have been very transparent as much as they have known the data. they have had daily calls, they have been very clear about the severity of this illness, and how the global community has to respond.     anthony fauci, the director of the us national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, and robert redfield, the head of the centers for disease control and prevention, took part in who conference calls about coronavirus from 7 january, according to sources familiar with the conversations.    gavin yamey, the director of duke university is center for policy impact in global health, said:  if the united states had followed the who is very clear advice on identifying cases, isolating cases and conducting contact tracing, then it would not be in the appalling situation that it is in today.     despite its declaration, the who did not advocate travel restrictions of the sort imposed by trump a day later on non-american travellers arriving from china. the president has pointed to this as an example of bad advice. but gostin, who is director of the who centre on global health law, said that the organisation cannot generally call for travel bans under international law - and such bans can be counterproductive, leading countries to withhold vital information for fear of economic isolation.     to blame the who for acting on the basis of international law and science in ways that are entirely consistent with what who practices have been for decades is the height of hypocrisy,  he said.    trump claimed that his ban  shut down  intercontinental transmission of the virus, but an abc television investigation found that there were 3,200 flights from china to the us in the critical period between december and march.   the guardian article does grant the who critics some points on taiwan:    the us president is accusations that the who is  china-centric  have more resonance with public health scholars. the who has largely excluded taiwan from its discussions, and dodged questions about the taiwanese response, which has been one of the most effective. but because of pressure from beijing - which sees taiwan as an integral part of its territory and opposes any form of recognition - the blindspot is a un-wide phenomenon.     i think the effusive praise for china, in the early days, was probably unnecessary,  jha said.    amanda glassman, the executive vice-president and senior fellow at the center for global development, said a deeper problem is the who is low budget and relatively toothless structure. unlike the nuclear watchdog, the international atomic energy agency, it has no redress against governments that do not cooperate.     it operates in countries at the pleasure and permission of the host country governments. so in the case of china, to be allowed to enter china, it was a negotiation to get there,  glassman said.  "
"yes, delivery of intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy  iptp , seasonal malaria chemoprevention  smc , and intermittent preventive treatment in infants  ipti  should be maintained provided that best practices for protecting health workers - and other front-line workers - from covid-19 are followed. ensuring access to these and other core malaria prevention tools saves lives and is an important strategy for reducing the strain on health systems in the context of the covid-19 response.new guidance from who describes the rights, roles and responsibilities of health workers in the context of covid-19. who has also developed guidance for countries to safely maintain essential health services during the pandemic."
"although the latter term is less publicized in the mass media, a who page basically calls it official too, although it was the ictv that came up with it:    viruses are named based on their genetic structure to facilitate the development of diagnostic tests, vaccines and medicines. virologists and the wider scientific community do this work, so viruses are named by the international committee on taxonomy of viruses  ictv .    diseases are named to enable discussion on disease prevention, spread, transmissibility, severity and treatment. human disease preparedness and response is who is role, so diseases are officially named by who in the international classification of diseases  icd .    ictv announced  severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2  sars-cov-2   as the name of the new virus on 11 february 2020. this name was chosen because the virus is genetically related to the coronavirus responsible for the sars outbreak of 2003. while related, the two viruses are different.     who announced  covid-19  as the name of this new disease on 11 february 2020, following guidelines previously developed with the world organisation for animal health  oie  and the food and agriculture organization of the united nations  fao .    who and ictv were in communication about the naming of both the virus and the disease.   so yeah, the two names originate from different organizations  as far as i can tell the ictv is not subordinated to the who in any way , but they apparently held some talks on the matter. nonetheless, the who does seem a little displeased with including  sars  in the virus name...    from a risk communications perspective, using the name sars can have unintended consequences in terms of creating unnecessary fear for some populations, especially in asia which was worst affected by the sars outbreak in 2003.     for that reason and others, who has begun referring to the virus as  the virus responsible for covid-19  or  the covid-19 virus  when communicating with the public. neither of these designations are intended as replacements for the official name of the virus as agreed by the ictv.   likewise, some virologists were displeased with the who name. in the later published sars-cov-2  naming  paper of ictv is csg  coronaviridae study group  they do  mend fences  however, saying that:    by uncoupling the naming conventions used for coronaviruses and the diseases that some of them cause in humans and animals, we wish to support the who in its efforts to establish disease names in the most appropriate way.  ...  the further advancement of naming conventions is also important because the ongoing discovery of new human and animal viruses by next-generation sequencing technologies can be expected to produce an increasing number of viruses that do not  easily  fit the virus-disease model that was widely used in the pre-genomic era  ... . having now established different names for the causative virus  sars-cov-2  and the disease  covid-19 , the csg hopes that this will raise awareness in both the general public and public health authorities regarding the difference between these two entities. the csg promotes this clear distinction because it will help improve the outbreak management and also reduces the risk of confusing virus and disease, as has been the case over many years with sars-cov  the virus  and sars  the disease .  "
can i book an uber or ola to go to the airport  yes
"your question is very generic, so i answer in general:  in general if a government  or an airline  does not stop travellers or planes, you will have no direct refund. it means that both think that there is no danger.  so usually it is recommended to have a travel insurance  for important/expensive travel, like far away for holidays . on the other hand, also a travel insurance may not allow you to cancel: it depends on the kind of insurance you get: some  the more expensive  does not ask reasons, other are more restrictive  and again, if you are not in a risk category, and there is no recommendation from government  they will not refund you.  on the other hand, this is a special  and global  thing, so to get good news coverage, they may end to refund you. cruise lines are starting this  also for old bookings , let is hope also the airlines will follow.  the reason about having such rules for new booking: they are trying to convince new people to book. without such incentives, many passengers will not book  and after booking many will travel anyway , this will keep cashflow. old booking: they have already paid, so if they do something, it is just to get good publicity.  because the airlines will reduce flights, you may hope that they will effect your flight, so that you can cancel/rebook  or having credit for next flight . "
"the implications seem to be indefinite near-dictatorship for so long as viktor orban chooses. for those who are interested, an  unofficial, i believe  english translation of the bill can be found here.  under the new legislation, by-elections are suspended and orban can rule by decree, suspend enforcement of laws, and arrest people for years under vague charges of  publicizing distorted facts  or  violating quarantine :    the hungarian parliament on monday voted by a two-thirds majority to allow the government of prime minister viktor orban to rule by decree without a set time limit.    while the new legislation remains in place, no by-elections can be held and orban is government will be able to suspend the enforcement of certain laws. plus, individuals who publicize what are viewed as untrue or distorted facts -- and which could interfere with the protection of the public, or could alarm or agitate a large number of people -- now face several years in jail.   though advertised as  emergency powers , these new powers will last indefinitely and can only be removed with the approval of the president:    the new rules can only be lifted with another two-thirds vote of the parliament and a presidential signature    hungary is viktor orban wins vote to rule by decree - politico   the new york times provides similar information:    in hungary, a new law has granted prime minister viktor orban the power to sidestep parliament and suspend existing laws. mr. orban, who declared a state of emergency this month, now has the sole power to end the emergency. ...    the law will permanently amend two articles of the criminal code that will further limit freedom of expression and penalize people for breaching quarantine orders. it will also suspend all elections and referendums.    under one measure, anyone who disseminates information that could hinder the government is response to the epidemic could face up to five years in prison. the legislation gives broad latitude to the public prosecutor to determine what counts as distorted or false information.    for autocrats, coronavirus is a chance to grab even more power - the new york times     the independent hungarian newspaper index has more detail.  the government can expand emergency declarations indefinitely without parliamentary approval:    the new law allows the government to make these extensions themselves indefinitely, or at least until parliament decides to revoke this authorisation before the state of emergency is over   it gives the government vague and expansive powers to arrest people for  false or distorting  speech:    the new law also introduces a vaguely worded new paragraph to the already existing offence of scaremongering in the criminal code, which opponents of the law say could threaten critical press:       anyone who, under a special legal order, in public, utters or spreads statements known to be false or statements distorting true facts shall be punishable by imprisonment between 1 to 5 years if done in a manner capable of hindering or derailing the effectiveness of the response effort.      and it give them the power to suspend laws and cancel elections:    the coronavirus act also introduces a number of other changes to the constitutional order of the country:      the government will be allowed to take steps beyond the extraordinary measures listed in the disaster relief act and suspend the application of certain laws by decree if necessary and proportional to protect citizens  health, life, property, rights, and to secure the stability of the economy in connection with the pandemic. ...  no local or national elections or referendums can be held until the end of the state of emergency, elections and referendums already scheduled will take place after the special legal order ends. municipal councils dissolved during the state of emergency stay in place until the end of the special legal order.      hungarian coronavirus act passes, granting viktor orban unprecedented emergency powers - index    "
"answering my own question:   as stated in a comment by  djclayworth, the us does not provide emergency care free of charge. charges do vary between hospitals, and us healthcare is the most expensive in the world. visitors contemplating extending their stay in the us because of worries about the extent of the epidemic in their country of residence should check that they have adequate insurance for the entire length of stay, starting from the date they arrived in the us.  "
"  why is surveillance not implemented at scale in the usa    not enough test kits.    if the usa does not have testing at scale, why is this the case    did not go through mers and sars, unlike south korea. e.g see http://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/mar/15/experience-of-sars-key-factor-in-response-to-coronavirus "
"yes, but do not forget about social distancing.    regular exercise can help keep you physically and mentally healthy during the outbreak. you should feel free to talk a walk, go to the park and get outside, but maintain at least 6 feet between yourself and others during that time. do not pack into a crowded park, beach or hiking trail. instead, head to an area with fewer people or exercise at off-hours, when not as many people are out and about.    since covid-19 can live on hard surfaces, and most playgrounds are not cleaned and disinfected regularly, you may want to reconsider bringing your child there, especially if you live in an area with ongoing coronavirus transmissions. if you do decide to go to the playground, make sure your child stays at least 6 feet away from other children."
"the original r0 calculation was developed in the early 1900s to model malaria transmission and is known as the ross-macdonald model so your idea is over 100 years old. the model was very famous for identifying the optimal strategy for malarial control by targeting the adult mosquito rather than the mosquito larvae. what it said was reducing the mosquito population and reducing malaria transmission were two different issues. so the bednet strategy is based in this idea and particularly spraying the inside of houses with insecticide.  r0 was famously used in the 1980s to predict the hiv pandemic when who thought it would remain localised in africa.   the problem with r0 and coronaviruses is we do not know the asymptomatic population who could also transmit the virus.   this population is potentially very large. epidemiologists will attempt extrapolation from cruise ship quarrentine, eg the diamond princess where everyone is tested to understand this transmission parameter and project this onto the rest of the planet. clearly this could have limitations or inaccuracies. the other issue i am baffled by is seasonal transmission and whether this will occur with covid-19.   one thing r0 of covid-19 will identify is the latent period transmission which occurs before the symptoms, i.e. the incubation period. essentially, people with cough/mild symptoms before they self isolate and become really ill with a lung infection will transmit the virus. in this context r0 will be/was very influential for understanding when to move between quarrentine and containment phases of the pandemic. "
"chlorine solutions are strongly discouraged as they carry a higher risk of hand irritation and ill health effects from making and diluting chlorine solutions, including eye irritation and respiratory problems. in addition, there is a risk of loss of antimicrobial effect if exposed to sunlight or heat. preparing chlorine solutions requires training to reach the correct dose of 0.05  with varying strengths of bleach available in the private sector. even if stored at a cool dry place with a lid away from sunlight, they have to be renewed daily. in comparison simple soapy water solution do not have any of the above-mentioned health risks and complications including loss of antiviral effect due to heat or sunlight. the antiviral effect of soapy water is due to the oily surface membrane of the covid-virus that is dissolved by soap, killing the virus."
"probably not as well as a mask that fits closely to your face.  you can imagine if you put a loosely knit scarf with lots of holes in it ... that would not be very effective,  says dr. michael klompas, an infectious disease physician at brigham and women is hospital. the goal is to create a barrier that catches droplets and keeps others from coming in, so you want coverage that is tightly woven and close-fitting."
"  how can i truly say that i  consent  to data collection and processing when i am coerced, so to speak, by the threat of failing my courses if i do not use this novel software    there is no need for you to  consent .  consent is just one of the reasons that allows a data processor to collect your data. there are other reasons that allows the data processor to capture your data.  in this case, it seems of application the  legitimate interest clause , as it is in your university is legitimate interest to capture your activity in order to evaluate you.  of course, that covers only the data collected that is relevant to that interest. they will certainly capture your identity and your answers, they may log your sessions and may try to gather some data to detect if you are somehow cheating, but they would not be allowed to check which are your favorite pornhub videos because that is not relevant for the university is legitimate interest.  art. 6 of the gdpr states:    processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies:   a  the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes    b  processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract    c  processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject    d  processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person    e  processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller    f  processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular where the data subject is a child.   this page also provides some in-depth analysis "
"probably not. the primaries are not under federal jurisdiction  and in some states, they are actually run by the party and not the state .  in practical terms, the trump line continues to be everything is fine and we will be back to normal soon so it is hard to imagine him taking such a step  although this could change if he thought it would benefit him politically . "
the latest one from germany are 300 respiratory machines. i do not think that is labeled as either eu or nato. 
"there is no treatment for coronavirus. some hospitals in china and in queensland have used antiviral drugs to treat sufferers, and there are clinical trials into the effectiveness of antiviral treatments. but the care of patients is largely what is known as supportive care, or making the patient comfortable: for example, giving panadol to lower fever or giving oxygen if someone is struggling to breathe. in critical cases, a person would be placed on a heart-lung life-support machine in an intensive care unit, but most people who contract the virus do not need to go to hospital and can recover at home in isolation."
"in the us there are two federal agencies the centers for disease control and prevention and the federal emergency management agency that have larges staffs of physicians, epidemiologists, public health, and disaster management professionals. those staffs spend a lot of their time worrying about questions like this, and gaming out different scenarios, just like the military games out battle strategies. there is also a large academic community of public health specialists that study problems like this. see for example these academic papers:  quarantine, isolation and the duty of easy rescue in public health    we address the issue of whether, why and under what conditions,  quarantine and isolation are morally justified, with a particular  focus on measures implemented in the developing world. we argue that  the benefits of quarantine and isolation justify some level of  coercion or compulsion by the state, but that the state should be able  to provide the strongest justification possible for implementing such  measures.   the challenge of mandatory evacuation: providing for and deciding for    insufficient attention has been given to the ethical and legal  questions surrounding mandatory evacuation in disasters and  emergencies. we argue that mandatory evacuation orders entail a  governmental duty both to provide for people and to decide for people:  government must trigger the provision of critical resources as well as  vigorous and persistent efforts to persuade reluctant citizens to  leave.   of course the political powers might choose to not to follow the advice of their professional staff or outside professionals, but that comes with grave political risks if the situation goes south. the political powers might also receive contradictory advice from different groups of professionals. which experts should they listen to   there is also the chance that even with the best of intentions and the best available information, the experts will make the wrong call, or apply the  lessons of the last battle  in the wrong situation.   these are hard questions. for example, in in august 2005 hurricane katrina hit new orleans and over 1800 people were killed. the governments of louisiana and new orleans we broadly criticized for not fully evacuating the city. later in 2005 hurricane rita was projected to hit houston and a mandatory evacuation was ordered. dozens of people died in the evacuation of houston, from heat stroke, accidents, and a tragic bus fire. as it turned out, hurricane rita struck houston only a passing blow, and fewer people died in the storm than in the evacuation. new lesson learned: do not evacuate, shelter in place, evacuate only those most at risk. then in 2017 hurricane harvey hit houston, causing massive flooding, and requiring the rescue of thousands of people trapped in floodwaters. and afterwards everyone was asking why did not houston evacuate .  predicting the future is hard. "
"one of the differences is the likelihoods for each model. in case readers can not remember, the likelihood encapsulates assumptions about the conditional distribution of the data. in the case of covid-19, this would be the distribution of infections  or reported new cases, or deaths, etc  on the given day. whatever we want the outcome to be, let is call it  y . thus, the conditional distribution  e.g. the number of new cases today  would be  y vert t   think of this as  y  conditioned on  t  .   in the case of taking the log and then performing lm, this would mean that   log y  vert t  sim  mathcal n   mu x ,  sigma 2   . equivalently, that  y  is lognormal given  t . the reason we do linear regression on   log y   is because on the log scale, the conditional mean is independent of the variance, where as the mean of the log normal is also a function of the variance. so pro: we know how to do linear regression, but con this approach makes linear regression assumptions on the log scale which can always be assessed but might be hard to theoretically justify  another con is that people do not realize that predicting on the log scale and then taking the exponential actually biases predictions by a factor if   exp  sigma 2/2   if i recall correctly. so when you make predictions from a log normal model, you need to account for this.  so far as i understand, nls assumes a gaussian likelihood as well, so in this model   y  vert t  sim  mathcal n   exp  beta 0    beta t ,  sigma 2  . except now, we let the conditional mean of the outcome be non-linear. this can be a pain because no confidence intervals are not bounded below by 0, so your model might estimate a negative count of infections. obviously, that can not happen. when the count of infections  or whatever  is larger, then a gaussian can justifiable. but when things are just starting, then this probably is not the best likelihood. furthermore, if you fit your data using nls, you will see that it fits later data very well but not early data. that is because misfitting later data incurrs larger loss and the goal of nls is to minimize this loss. the approach with glm frees is a little and allows us to control the conditional distribution as well as the form of the conditional mean through the link function. in this model,  y  vert t  sim  text gamma   mu x ,  phi   with   mu x    g  -1   beta 0    beta 1  . we call  g  the link, and for the case of log link   mu x     exp  beta 0    beta 1 t  . pro these models are much more expressive, but i think the power comes from the ability to perform inference with a likelihood which is not normal. this lifts a lot of the restrictions, for example symmetric confidence intervals. the con is that you need a little more theory to understand what is going on.  "
"i know answers are not supposed to be just links, but this is the best i can do.  this page links to a number of public covid 19 studies done in r.  http://refind.com/znmeb/r-tools-for-coronavirus  this one focuses in-depth on epidemiology models.  http://timchurches.github.io/blog/posts/2020-02-18-analysing-covid-19-2019-ncov-outbreak-data-with-r-part-1/  direct link to some of the cool stuff.  http://www.statsandr.com/blog/top-r-resources-on-covid-19-coronavirus/ "
"probably because prior who research was rather skeptical of their ultimate effectiveness:     screening and quarantining entering travelers at international borders did not substantially delay virus introduction in past pandemics, except in some island countries, and will likely be even less effective in the modern era.   that paper was co-authored  on behalf of the who  by employees of the  us  cdc  lead author actually , the ecdc, the uk is hpa, australian dha, and some of who is own employees. so you could say it was a fairly broad consensus at the time it was written  2006 .  the who has actually explained/defended their reasoning in relation to the covid-19 outbreak in more detail in a february press release:    who continues to advise against the application of travel or trade restrictions to countries experiencing covid-19 outbreaks.    in general, evidence shows that restricting the movement of people and goods during public health emergencies is ineffective in most situations and may divert resources from other interventions. furthermore, restrictions may interrupt needed aid and technical support, may disrupt businesses, and may have negative social and economic effects on the affected countries. however, in certain circumstances, measures that restrict the movement of people may prove temporarily useful, such as in settings with few international connections and limited response capacities.    travel measures that significantly interfere with international traffic may only be justified at the beginning of an outbreak, as they may allow countries to gain time, even if only a few days, to rapidly implement effective preparedness measures. such restrictions must be based on a careful risk assessment, be proportionate to the public health risk, be short in duration, and be reconsidered regularly as the situation evolves.    travel bans to affected areas or denial of entry to passengers coming from affected areas are usually not effective in preventing the importation of cases but may have a significant economic and social impact. since who declaration of a public health emergency of international concern in relation to covid-19, and as of 27 february, 38 countries have reported to who additional health measures that significantly interfere with international traffic in relation to travel to and from china or other countries, ranging from denial of entry of passengers, visa restrictions or quarantine for returning travellers. several countries that denied entry of travellers or who have suspended the flights to and from china or other affected countries, are now reporting cases of covid-19.    temperature screening alone, at exit or entry, is not an effective way to stop international spread, since infected individuals may be in incubation period, may not express apparent symptoms early on in the course of the disease, or may dissimulate fever through the use of antipyretics  in addition, such measures require substantial investments for what may bear little benefits.  ...    i have not found more recent press releases on this matter, especially after the us and the eu have imposed much more wider travel bans. i do wonder the extent to which the who might have reconsidered that initial approach...  aside, comment on the question... i wonder why you found it necessary to use  that guy from india  as the motivator for this question when  in the us  a poll published on march 26 says...    in thinking about specific steps that have been announced to address the coronavirus outbreak, majorities of republicans and democrats view a range of measures as necessary to stem the spread of the virus. for example, overwhelming majorities of both republicans  96   and democrats  94   say restricting international travel to the u.s. is necessary.  "
"the best data we have from guangdong, china, is that household transmission is not 100     preliminary studies ongoing in guangdong estimate the secondary attack rate in households ranges from 3-10 .   so, this suggests that if either of you are potentially infected, then social distancing and other infection control measures will likely prevent the transmission from one to the other.  if, on the other hand, you have all been tested to be infection free  pcr or other reliable test , and you are in isolation without the risk of catching the infection from someone else, then as adults what you do in the privacy of your own homes is only limited by local laws and imagination.  http://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/who-china-joint-mission-on-covid-19-final-report.pdf "
"  can i rightfully refuse to use the school is platform    tl dr: legally, probably not, but you are still more or less in the right according to the norms of academia.  longer answer:  this is not so much about rights in the legal sense. the underlying context is that there is a longstanding tradition in academia that faculty own the rights to written  and other  media they create as part of their work. this is the case in the us where these rights are pretty universally respected as far as i am aware, and in many other countries, and is true despite the fact that legally, in the us at least, employers in general can  and, outside of academia, generally do  assert ownership of all intellectual property generated by employees in a work context.  in other words, academic institutions have quite intentionally and explicitly given up some of the legal ownership rights they are in principle entitled to. as far as i understand, the guiding philosophy here is that faculty exercise a lot more freedom and control over what kind of materials they produce compared to employees in other sectors. that means the work is regarded as being of a more personal, creative nature, and it was decided long ago that that should mean that faculty would be the owners of the work.  note: i am talking specifically about copyright  for other forms of ip like patent rights, a quite different philosophy and different policies typically apply.   coming back to your question: i think you are quite right to be concerned. your university is at the very least showing itself as somewhat deaf to these very old and well-established ideas. but can you  rightfully refuse   legally, that is less clear. but it would be quite reasonable to express a concern. at my university the administration has provided reassurance to faculty that their copyright over teaching materials would be respected during the covid-19 crisis, and we were given quite specific explanations on how our rights would be balanced against the need to deliver our teaching remotely, including providing recordings, what steps we can take to prevent students from sharing our materials, and more. perhaps by raising the issue you and your colleagues can push your own administration to also think this through a bit more.  let me finish by encouraging you to also adopt a more flexible and tolerant mindset. all of us are called upon these days to get out of our comfort zone and appear in online videos and recordings, use online platforms with awful records on privacy, and generally engage in activities that in normal times we might consider distasteful and privacy-violating. we do this with the understanding that exceptional times call for exceptional measures, and that the highest priority right now is to keep the lights on at our institutions. as i said, i think your concern is reasonable and probably you can reach some sensible understanding with your administration about your class materials. but while you discuss the issue with them, try to keep some perspective and not make yourself too much of a pain in the butt. as important and valid as this is, people do have worse things to worry about these days. "
"we probably will not really know for certain until we have time to gather more data from survivors. however, infection with existing coronaviruses  including sars-cov, genetically very similar to the covid-19 virus sars-cov-2  ref. http://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-020-0695-z  suggests that those who are infected and survive may develop temporary immunity  ref. http://www.statnews.com/2020/02/04/two-scenarios-if-new-coronavirus-isnt-contained/ :    the toll of a seasonal-flu-like coronavirus also depends on immunity -- which is also scientifically uncertain. exposure to the four endemic coronaviruses produces immunity that lasts longer than that to influenza, webby said, but not permanent immunity. like respiratory syncytial virus, which can re-infect adults who had it in childhood, coronavirus immunity wanes.     everyone, by the time they reach adulthood, should have some immunity to some coronavirus,  said tim sheahan, a coronavirus researcher at university of north carolina is gillings school of global public health. but because it does not last, older people can get reinfected. the elderly also have a higher death rate from coronaviruses such as sars and mers, a pattern 2019-ncov is following.     there is some evidence that people can be reinfected with the four coronaviruses and that there is no long-lasting immunity,  dr. susan kline, an infectious disease specialist at of the university of minnesota.  like rhinoviruses  which cause the common cold , you could be infected multiple times over your life. you can mount an antibody response, but it wanes, so on subsequent exposure you do not have protection.  subsequent infections often produce milder illness, however.   it might also be possible that someone was infected with two different strains of sars-cov-2 and did not develop immunity from the first infection. but it could have also been a continuation of the first infection, or testing error. without virus sequence data, it was not possible to determine what happened for certain  ref. http://www.wired.com/story/did-a-woman-get-coronavirus-twice-scientists-are-skeptical/ :    what could be worse than getting the pneumonia-like illness now known as covid-19  getting it twice.    that is what japanese government officials say may have happened to a female tour bus guide in osaka. the woman was first diagnosed with covid-19 in late january, according to a statement released by osaka is prefectural government wednesday. she was discharged shortly after, once her symptoms had improved. a subsequent test came back negative for the virus. three weeks later she returned with a sore throat and chest pain and tested again. for a second time, she tested positive for covid-19.    news reports detailing the case raised the possibility that people may not be developing immunity to the new coronavirus, even after they have recovered. but several infectious disease specialists say there is not enough data to support that conclusion. another possibility is that the virus subsided and flared up again.  some viruses tend to do that.  or the test was simply wrong.   if someone was infected twice, comparing the genomic sequences of the virus over time would have helped determine that with more certainty. "
"how safe is it to visit a hospital  it is not completely safe to visit a hospital, more so if you are above the age of 60 or suffering from comorbidities. however, if you have to visit the hospital for screening, dialysis etc, inform your healthcare official beforehand and make sure you wear a mask and maintain safe distance from others."
"particle size-selective assessment of protection of european standard ffp respirators and surgical masks against particles-tested with human subjects    the tested ffp respirators and sms in this study were observed to have the worst protection against particles between 0.263 and 0.384 mm. the protection factors of ffp respirators against particles in the size range of 0.093-1.61 mm were not size dependent. the size ranges of viral and bacterial particles fall into this size range, and they are expected to have similar pfs. the ffp respirators provided about 11.5 to 15.9 times better protection than the sms, suggesting that sms are not a good substitute for ffp respirators when concerns exist about airborne transmission of bacterial and viral pathogens.   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5058571/  that is a ffp2 in your image and they are saying it is 12-16x better pf  protection factor  than a surgical mask  sm  "
"while specific guidelines vary from city to city, the centers for disease control and prevention  cdc  has advised that americans practice social distancing, and stay home, avoid mass gatherings and maintain 6 feet between themselves and others whenever possible. these efforts are intended to help  flatten the curve,  which means distributing the number of coronavirus cases over a longer period of time, to avoid overwhelming the health care system.  americans should continue to uphold proper flu season hygiene. wash your hands often, stay home if you are sick and cough or sneeze into your elbow rather than your hand.  if schools in your district have not yet closed, dr. william schaffner, medical director for the nonprofit national foundation for infectious diseases, suggested sitting down and outlining a plan for how your family might handle schools and businesses closing. does an older relative take prescription medication  now might be a good time to stockpile at least two weeks  worth.  call schools and ask if there are plans for remote schooling -- as some schools have done. figure out a childcare plan in the event schools close, and ask about remote working options. asking more questions now hopefully means asking fewer later."
"when you buy an airline ticket there are up to 3 separate airlines that can be involved for each leg of the flight. these are common known as :   the  marketing carrier . this is the airline who is flight number is on the ticket/itinerary. the  operating carrier . this is the airline who is aircraft will actually fly the flight. the  ticketing carrier . this is the airline that actually sold you the ticket.    the ticketing carrier will be the same for all legs of the flight on the same ticket. the other two can vary from leg-to-leg   in many cases, all 3 will be the same - you buy a ticket from airline xx, for flight xx123, which is flown by airline xx themselves.  in your case, all 3 are not the same. ua7938 is marketed as a united airlines flight  thus the ua flight number , but the operating carrier is ana. what we can not tell from the information you have provided is who the ticketing carrier is - and that is the one that actually matters here   if you purchased your ticket directly from an airline website, then you can be fairly sure that is the ticketing carrier. if you purchased it from a travel agency, then it is a little more complex. in general, if all flights on a ticket are for the same marketing airline  eg, all uaxxx flight numbers  then most likely the ticket was issued by that airline.  to be certain, you will need to check the ticket itself. in your email confirmation  or on the relevant website for where you bought the ticket  you should find a  ticket number  which is generally around 13 numbers long. the first 3 digits in this number show who the ticketing carrier is. if this number is 016, then your ticket was issued by united airlines. if it is 205, ana. if it is 014, it is air canada.  now, back to your original question. the policies that apply in a situation like this will be the policy of the ticketing carrier. that carrier might be influenced by the operating or marketing carriers policies, but officially it is the ticketing carrier that you have paid for your ticket, and it is them that has your money up until the time that you actually take the flight.  in your case it is most likely that united is the ticket carrier so it would be their policies that apply - but you will need to check the ticket number to be sure  "
"  like everything else, we are instructed by past experiences. although there were not a lot of data on neurologic aspects of mers and sars, there were some papers describing neurologic complications in those patients. in rare cases, complications including adem  acute disseminated encephalomyelitis -like demyelination, encephalitis, and brainstem encephalitis were reported. they also saw some peripheral and non-central nervous system stuff, including things that looked like guillain-barre syndrome or what they would sometimes call critical illness polyneuropathy   http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/927562  so, yes, severely affected covid-19 patients may develop something that looks like gbs. "
"there is a lot of panicked buying going on in general  it is become a joke how much people are hoarding toilet paper  in the us, in particular, it was not hard to find before this . but hoarding things is part of a broader issue  emphasis mine     australia has also suffered from panic buying of toilet paper despite plentiful domestic supply. a risk expert in the country explained it this way:  stocking up on toilet paper is ... a relatively cheap action, and people like to think that they are wouldoing something  when they feel at risk.     this is an example of  zero risk bias,  in which people prefer to try to eliminate one type of possibly superficial risk entirely rather than do something that would reduce their total risk by a greater amount.    hoarding also makes people feel secure. this is especially relevant when the world is faced with a novel disease over which all of us have little or no control. however, we can control things like having enough toilet paper in case we are quarantined.   guns still mean security to a lot of people  guns are still a powerful way to protect oneself, and more than a few people fear social breakdown, despite the fact that no place in the us has suspended their police force due to the pandemic, nor are there widespread shortages of police. as such, people want weapons to stop intruders    hyatt said that the type of guns being bought was reflective of the fear prevalent among customers. there was almost no interest in hunting rifles. instead, people were opting for target guns and there was big demand for ar-15 semi-automatic assault-style rifles.    asked why he thought the spike was happening, hyatt replied:  financial meltdown, pandemic, crime, politics ... you throw it all into the pot, and you have one hell of a mess.   "
"while the other two sort out their disagreement, here is one way the broadcast of misinformation is regulated which is not subject to dispute.  there is a federal agency called the federal communications commission  fcc . the fcc regulates interstate and international communications over tv, radio, satellite, cable, etc., throughout the us and its territories.   among its duties and powers, it prohibits the broadcast of false info regarding a crime or catastrophe if the broadcaster  knows the information is false and will cause substantial  public harm  if aired.  fcc rules indicate that the harm  must begin immediately and cause direct and actual damage to property or the health or safety of the general public  or divert law enforcement or public health and safety authorities from their duties.    additionally, while law prohibits the fcc from engaging in censorship or otherwise infringing on first amendment rights of the press, it is nonetheless illegal for  broadcasters to intentionally distort the news, and the fcc may act on complaints if there is documented evidence of such behavior from persons with direct personal knowledge.    the fcc may not interfere with how a broadcaster chooses to select or present news or commentary and its authority to respond to complaints regarding the above is narrow in scope. generally, it cannot intervene without testimony from a person with  direct personal knowledge of an intentional falsification of the news.    the fcc is authority for this may be found at 47 cfr ss 73.1217, which states:     ss 73.1217 broadcast hoaxes.   no licensee or permittee of any broadcast  station shall broadcast false information concerning a crime or a  catastrophe if:     a  the licensee knows this information is false      b  it is forseeable that broadcast of the information will cause  substantial public harm, and     c  broadcast of the information does in fact directly cause  substantial public harm.    any programming accompanied by a disclaimer will be presumed not to  pose foreseeable harm if the disclaimer clearly characterizes the  program as a fiction and is presented in a way that is reasonable  under the circumstances.   important context is included in the accompanying note, which states:     for purposes of this rule,  public harm  must begin immediately, and  cause direct and actual damage to property or to the health or safety  of the general public, or diversion of law enforcement or other public  health and safety authorities from their duties. the public harm will  be deemed foreseeable if the licensee could expect with a significant  degree of certainty that public harm would occur. a  crime  is any act  or omission that makes the offender subject to criminal punishment by  law. a  catastrophe  is a disaster or imminent disaster involving  violent or sudden event affecting the public.   edit: addition:  more helpful context may come from sec. 4 of this law review article and you may find the article in general, about criminalizing false speech on social media, interesting: http://jolt.law.harvard.edu/assets/articlepdfs/v31/31harvjltech65.pdf "
"for people living in households with multiple residents, it may be difficult to avoid infecting each other. dr. isaac bogoch says that if someone becomes sick with covid-19, the best course of action is to call the local public health authority.   it is extremely important to call the local public health hotline to discuss the exact situation so they can give you very specific recommendations based on your unique setting,  he told ctv is your morning.  in general, though, it appears the answer to that question may be a  yes.  phac says that anyone who has been in contact with a suspected, probably or confirmed case of covid-19 should self-isolate for 14 days, starting at the time of contact.  this approach was taken by prime minister justin trudeau, who entered self- isolation with his family after sophie gregoire trudeau tested positive for the virus. once his wife was given the all clear, the prime minister said he would  remain in isolation  http://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/trudeau- says-he-ll-keep-self-isolating-announces-new-help-for- charities-1.4873202 until it had been two weeks since their last contact before the clearance.  "
"cdc website:    ppe is the least effective control because it involves a high level  of worker involvement and is highly dependent on proper fit and  correct, consistent use.   e.g. the likelihood for untrained personalto properly use ppe is not realistic, so it would be negligent of the whoto suggest this to the public for this use.  this does not address reducing transmission. though, masks, used by those untrained, are not realistic in halting the spread. one method that has proven to halt the spread is self-quarantine  both healthy and non-healthy  and social distancing and the other recommendations listed in the link provided. "
"no, deterministic probability is when you know for certain. if a person does not have a diagnosis, then he does not have the disease/condition. doctors are not supposed to give a probability but we as human beings always like to know the likelihood.  for example, person a who is 27 years old who has the coronavirus is highly unlikely to die of the virus but it is not impossible. "
"you choosing to remove her as your dependent, or you choosing to not have claimed her as your dependent in the first place when you filed, will not allow her to get the stimulus payment. the restriction is that she cannot get the stimulus payment if she can be claimed by somebody else as a dependent, not that she actually was claimed by somebody else as a dependent. the fact that you have a choice to claim her as your dependent or not, implies that she can be claimed by you as a dependent  i.e. she meets the conditions in the law to qualify as your dependent . in that case, she cannot get the stimulus payment, even if you do not actually claim her as a dependent on your tax return. "
"she can file form i-539 for extension of status at any point up until her status expires. the application just has to be officially received by uscis before her status expires.  if she filed her extension of status application before her status expired, she can stay in the us while it is pending even if her status expires in the meantime. the government will generally not deport her for being out of status while her extension of status is pending. in addition, she does not accrue  unlawful presence  while her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is pending, even if her i-94 is expired. if her extension of status is approved, she will be retroactively granted status from when her last status expired.  see this brochure:    what if i file for an extension of stay on time but uscis does not make  a decision before my i-94 expires     your lawful nonimmigrant status ends, and you are out of status, when  your form i-94 expires, even if you have timely applied to extend your  nonimmigrant status. generally, as a matter of discretion, uscis will  defer any removal proceedings until after the petition is adjudicated  and uscis decides your request for extension of nonimmigrant status.   ...     even though you are not actually in a lawful nonimmigrant status, you  do not accrue  unlawful presence  for purposes of inadmissibility  under section 212 a  9  b  of the immigration and nationality act,  while your extension of status application is pending if it was filed  prior to the expiration of your form i-94.     ...     if your application for an extension of stay is approved, the approval  will relate back to the date your form i-94 expired, and your status  while your application is pending will then be considered to have been  lawful.    if your application is denied, you may be required to cease employment  and depart the united states immediately.    in addition, any nonimmigrant visa in your passport granted in  connection with your classification becomes void. once your visa is  void, you must submit any new visa application at a u.s. consulate in  your home country  not a third country, except in rare instances as  determined by the u.s. department of state .   if her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is denied, and her i-94 has expired, and she is still in the us on the date of the denial, she will start to accrue  unlawful presence  from the date of the denial.   see afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  d  iv :    if a timely filed, non-frivolous request for eos or cos is denied for  cause, unlawful presence begins to accrue the day after the request is  denied.   and 9 fam 302.11-3 b  1  b  4  b  ii :    b. dhs has interpreted  period of stay authorized by the secretary of  homeland security,  as used in this context, to include:     4  for aliens who have applied for extension of stay or change of  nonimmigrant classification and who have remained in the united states  after expiration of the from i-94 while awaiting dhs is decision, the  entire period of the pendency of the application, provided that:      a  the alien does not work unlawfully while the application is  pending and did not work unlawfully prior to filing the application   and     b  the alien did not otherwise fail to maintain his or her status  prior to the filing of the application  unless the application is  approved at the discretion of uscis and the failure to maintain status  is solely a result of the expiration of the form i-94 , and further  provided either:     i   ...   or     ii  if the application was denied or the alien departed while the  application was still pending, that the application was timely filed  and nonfrivolous.    unlawful presence  does not cause a ban unless she leaves the us after accrues more than 180 days of  unlawful presence . so she should not have to worry about a ban as long as she leaves within a reasonable amount of time after she learns about the denial.  the other consequence of her being still in the us when her extension of status is denied if her i-94 is expired, is that ina 222 g  is triggered, which means the visa she used to enter the us is automatically voided, and she would have to apply for us visas from her country of nationality from then on.  also, uscis has a policy where they will issue notices to appear  ntas  to people after an i-539 denial if they are unlawfully present after the denial, although i am not sure whether they are still doing that during the covid-19 outbreak. according to this teleconference, they will wait for a 33-day period  the period to file a motion to reopen or reconsider  after the denial before they issue the nta, so this basically means your mother should try to leave within 33 days of a denial.  on the other hand, if she leaves the us while her timely-filed, non-frivolous extension of status application is still pending  i.e. before it is approved or denied , she does not accrue any  unlawful presence , and her visa is not voided.  see afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  c :    departure from the united states while a request for eos or cos is  pending, does not subject an alien to the 3-year, 10-year, or  permanent bar, if he or she departs after the expiration of form i-94,  arrival/departure record unless the application was frivolous,  untimely, or the individual had worked without authorization.   and the 9 fam 302.11-3 b  1  b  4  b  ii  passage quoted previously.  and it does not void her visa under ina 222 g , according to 9 fam 302.1-9 b  1  c  4  b :     ...  in addition, if an alien departs after the date on the form i-94  passes, but before his or her application for extension or change of  status has been decided by uscis, they must be subject to a blanket  exemption from ina 222 g , if the application was filed in a  timely  manner  and is  nonfrivolous  in nature. you may consider an  application nonfrivolous if it is not, on its face, a groundless  excuse for the applicant to remain in the united states to engage in  activities incompatible with his or her status. posts may be  satisfied that an alien filed in a timely manner using evidence such  as a record in uscis person centric query service  pcqs  or the dated  receipt or canceled check from uscis for the payment of the  application fee to extend or change status together with evidence of  the expiration of the alien is legal status.   the meaning of being timely-filed and non-frivolous are described in afm chapter 40.9.2 b  3  c :     ...     the requirement that the application was timely may be established  through the submission of evidence of the date the previously  authorized stay expired, together with a copy of a dated filing  receipt, a canceled check payable to uscis for the eos or cos  application, or other credible evidence of a timely filing.     ...     to be considered non-frivolous, the application must have an arguable  basis in law and fact, and must not have been filed for an improper  purpose  such as to prolong one is stay to pursue activities  inconsistent with one is status .    in determining whether an eos or cos application was non-frivolous,  dos has instructed consular posts that it is not necessary to make a  determination that uscis would have ultimately ruled in favor of the  alien.   and 9 fam 302.11-3 b  5  b-c :    b.  ...  therefore, for all cases involving potential inadmissibility  under ina 212 a  9  b  whether under the three-year bar of  212 a  9  b  i  i  or the 10-year bar of ina 212 a  9  b  i  ii , dhs  has decided to consider all time during which an application for  extension of stay  eos  or change of nonimmigrant status  cos  is  pending to be a period of stay authorized by the secretary of homeland  security provided:     1  the application was filed in a timely manner  i.e., before the  expiration date of the form i-94, arrival and departure record      2  the application was  nonfrivolous   and     3  the alien has not engaged in unauthorized employment  whether  before or after april 1, 1997 .     ...     c. to be considered  nonfrivolous  the consular officer must find that  the application had an arguable basis in law and fact and must not  have been filed for an improper purpose  e.g., as a groundless excuse  for the applicant to remain in activities incompatible with his or her  status . it is not necessary to determine that the dhs would have  approved the application for it to be considered nonfrivolous.   so the question is whether her application of extension of status is  frivolous  or not. note that it is possible for an application to be  non-frivolous  even if uscis is likely to deny it  it just needs to have an  arguable basis in law and fact  and not be  filed for an improper purpose .  in my  non-professional  opinion, an application of extension of status for the reason of not being able to return to her home country to due covid-19 flight bans is not frivolous. in the uscis page on special situations, it mentions that for applications of extension of status and change of status, uscis will take into consideration how special situations prevented your departure. "
"the following measures are not effective against covid-2019 and can be harmful:  smoking,  wearing multiple masks, taking antibiotics.  in any case, if you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing seek medical care early to reduce the risk of developing a more severe infection and be sure to share your recent travel history with your health care provider."
"the scenarios are impossible and would be laughable if they were not so serious. the evidence is in the phylogenetic trees. its a bit like a crime scene when the forensics team investigate. we have done enough crime-scenes often going to the site, collecting the pathogen, sequencing and then analysis -  usually neglected diseases  without any associated conspiracy theories.   the key technical issue is coronaviruses are zoonoses , pathogens spread to humans from animal reservoirs and phylogenetic tree really helps understand the how the virus is transmitted.  trees    the key thing about all the trees are bats. bats lineages are present at every single point of the betacoronavirus phylogeny  tree , both as paraphyletic and monophyletic lineages, one example is this tree of betacoronaviruses here. meaning the nodes connecting the branches of the tree to the  master-branch , represent common ancestors and these were almost certainly bat-borne cornaviruses. this is especially true for sars and - here bat-viruses are everywhere.  the tree here also shows that sars arose on independently on two occassions, again surrounded by bat lineages and 2019-ncov has emerged separately at least once, again associated with bats.  finally the tree below is a figure from biorxiv zhou et al  2020   discovery of a novel coronavirus associated with the recent pneumonia outbreak in humans and its potential bat origin  shows the 2019-ncov lineage is a direct descendent of a very closely virus isolated from a bat  ratg13  . this is a really conclusive finding btw.    note, i do not normally present inline images, but it is such a nice finding  hint to reviewers  and biorxiv is open access.  conspiracy theory 1: laboratory made virus  literally it would require someone passaging a new virus, with unknown human pathogenicity, and independently introducing all the earlier passages enmass across bat populations of china. they would then hope each lineage becomes an indepedent virus population before, then introducing the virus to humans. thus when field teams of scientists go around using mist nets to trap the bats, buy them from markets, isolate the virus and sequence it they would find a beautiful, array of natural variation in the bat populations leading up to the human epidemics, that perfectly matches vast numbers of other viral zoonoses. moreover, this would have to have happen substancially prior to sars and 2019-ncov, because the bat betacoronaviruses have been known about prior both epidemics, viz. its simply not feasible.  biological explanation general bats are a reservoir host to vast numbers of pathogens, particularly viruses, including many alphaviruses, flaviviruses, rabies virus and beleived to be important in ebolavirus  i do not know about this  and even important to several eukaryotic parasites. it makes sense, they are mammals, so evolutionary much closer to us than birds for example, with large dispersal potential and roost in  overcrowded  areas enable rapid transmission between bats.  technical the trees show bats are the common ancestor of betacoronaviruses in particular for the lineage leading into the emergence of 2019-ncov and sars, this is seen in this tree, this one and the tree above. the obvious explanation is the virus circulates endemically in bats and has jumped into humans. for sars the intermediate host, or possible  vector  was civet cats.   the theory and the observations fit into a seamless biological answer.  conspiracy theory 2: middle eastern connection  i heard a very weird conspiracy theory attempting to connect mers with 2019-ncov. the theory was elaborate and i do not think it is productive to describe here.  biological explanation all the trees of betacoronaviruses show mers was one of the earliest viruses to diverge and is very distant from 2019-ncov, to the extent the theory is completely implausible. the homology between these viruses is 50 , so its either mers or 2019-ncov. its more extreme than mixing up yellow fever virus  mortality 40-80   with west nile virus  mortality  lt  lt 0.1  , the two viruses are completely different at every level.  what about errors  phylogeneticists can spot it a mile off. there are tell-tale phylogenetic signatures we pick up, but also we do this to assess  rare  genetic phenomina. there is nothing  rare  about the coronaviruses. the only anomaly is variation in the poly-a tail and that is the natural variation from in vitro time-series experiments. basically we have looked at enough virses/parasites through trees, that have no conspiracy theories at all  often neglected diseases , and understand how natural variation operates - so a phylogenecist can shift the wheat from the chaff without really thinking about it.  opinion the conspiracy theories are deeply misplaced, and the only connection i can imagine is its china. however, the chinese have loads of viruses, influenza in particular which causes major pandemics, but that is a consequence of their natural ecology  small-holder farming  allowing the virus to move between reservoir hosts. i have not visited small-hold farms in china, but i have in other parts of the world and when you see them, you get it. the pigs, chickens  ducks .. china , dogs, horses and humans all living within 10 meters of each other.   conclusion shipping large numbers of bats to market, bat soup, raw meat from arboreal  tree-living  mammals such as civets that are sympatric to bats. then consider the classical epidemiology in light of the phylogenetic data, which is very consistent, a single picture emerges that coronavirus is one of many zoonoses which has managed to transmit between patients.   summary the fundamental point is the bioinformatics fit into the classical epidemiology of a zoonose.   , note the bat coronavirus ratg13 predates the 2019-ncov outbreak by 7 years. it is not even clear whether the virus has been isolated, i.e. could just be a rna sequence.   they have found some 500 novel coronaviruses, about 50 of which fall relatively close to the sars virus on the family tree, including ratg13--it was fished out of a bat fecal sample they collected in 2013 from a cave in moglang in yunnan province.   cohen,  mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak is origins  feb, 2020 science magazine, "
"two studies have reported the use of lpv/r as post-exposure prophylaxis for sars-cov and mers-cov. one of these studies suggested that the occurrence of mers-cov infection was lower among health workers receiving lpv/r compared to those who did not receive any drugs  the other study found no cases of sars-cov infection among 19 people living with hiv hospitalized in the same ward of sars patients, of whom 11 were on antiretroviral therapy. again, the certainty of the evidence is very low due to small sample size, variability in drugs provided, and uncertainty regarding intensity of exposure."
"the following measures are not effective against covid-2019 and can be harmful:smokingwearing multiple maskstaking antibiotics  see question 10  are there any medicines of therapies that can prevent or cure covid-19   in any case, if you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing seek medical care early to reduce the risk of developing a more severe infection and be sure to share your recent travel history with your health care provider."
"this is a very dynamic and unprecedented situation, so nobody knows for sure what will happen. so below is more of an opinion rather than known fact.  as it currently stands, travel into the 26 eu states as well as iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, is prohibited for 30 days and as such travel is banned for all non-eu citizens or residents  except uk citizens .  assuming your travel request falls within this period then the following is likely.   they could reject you current application and tell you to reapply in the future. that this rejection will not be looked upon negatively when you apply, and you should get a full refund of any fees paid. or they could put your application on hold and ask you in the future if you wish to proceed or not with new dates. if not, then you would get a full refund. they could approve your visa, but issue it with different dates and/or an extended travel period. e.g. instead of 90 in 180 days, then 90 in 270 days.   if your travel request is for later than this period then the following could occur:   issue the visa but advise you that you will only be able to travel if the borders reopen. if the borders do not reopen in time, you have to apply again. you may or may not have to pay the fees again in such a case. stop processing and ask you if you wish to postpone or withdraw your application, and refund the fees stop processing temporarily. continue processing when the situation improves, if your application is far enough in the future reject the application, and tell you to reapply again when the situation is clearer. refund the fees.   if the visa is rejected due to the corona shutdown, then it will not be looked upon negatively when you apply again in the future and you should get a full refund. "
"in light of new data about how covid-19 spreads, along with evidence of widespread covid-19 illness in communities across the country, cdc recommends that people wear a cloth face covering to cover their nose and mouth in the community setting. this is an additional public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of covid-19 in addition to  not instead of  social distancing, frequent hand cleaning and other everyday preventive actions. a cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer, but may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others. this would be especially important in the event that someone is infected but does not have symptoms. a cloth face covering should be worn whenever people must go into public settings  grocery stores, for example . medical masks and n-95 respirators are reserved for healthcare workers and other first responders, as recommended by current cdc guidance."
"based on available information, adults aged 65 years and older and people of any age with underlying medical conditions included on this list are at higher risk for severe illness and poorer outcomes from covid-19. cdc is collecting and analyzing data regularly and will update the list when we learn more. people with underlying medical conditions not on the list might also be at higher risk and should consult with their healthcare provider if they are concerned. we encourage all people, regardless of risk, to:  take steps to protect yourself and others. call your healthcare provider if you are sick with a fever, cough, or shortness of breath. follow cdc travel guidelines and the recommendations of your state and local health officials.  "
"antiretrovirals are an efficacious and highly tolerable treatment for people living with hiv. the antiretroviral lpv/r is currently being investigated as a possible treatment for covid-19.if they are to be used for the treatment of covid-19, a plan should be in place to ensure there is adequate and continuous supply to cover the needs of all people living with hiv already using lpv/r and those who will need to begin treatment. however, a relatively small proportion of people are on regimens which include lpv/r, since it is used as a second-line regimen according to who is hiv treatment guidelines. any country that allows the use of hiv medicines for the treatment of covid-19 must ensure that an adequate and sustainable supply is in place."
"actually the most important thing for you to focus on right now is getting a good research experience and a good relationship with an advisor. get started on that. learn to go deep into some subfield of your overall field. gain expertise in that.   along the way, if you want to be an academic, a bit of teaching experience will help, but will be more valuable for some positions than others. but without the  gain expertise  part it will not matter much.   and i caution against trying to choose a field strategically based on what is going on this month. you will graduate, in several years, into a completely different job situation and it is impossible to predict how it will go long in advance. as you get closer to graduation, in four years or so in the us, you can start to broaden your skill set depending on the perceived needs at that time.   but some things are valuable in any case. learning to do research. learning to write. learning to collaborate. building a circle of potential collaborators.  but most of the details you suggest are just distractions at this time. day 1 is the day you look seriously for the best advisor willing to work with you.  "
"if you have an antibody against the viral proteins you can do an immuno staining followed by fluorescence imaging. for this type of technique you would need a very specific antibody. i am not aware that this exist at the moment and i do not think anyone had the time to do it for immunostaining purposes.  for fish it would depend on the genomic nature of the virus  ssrna, ssdna, dsrna, dsdna , again you would need specific probes to capture it. again specific is key.  edit 01.04.2020: this group says they have found specific antibodies http://www.centivax.com/covid19 "
"first of all, recognize that your concerns may not be the same as your four year old is concerns. this has two implications:   your child may be worried about things you could not have thought of. your child is likely shielded from or does not understand a lot of what is going on, and that can also mean that they do not have access to bits of information that would actually be reassuring. encourage your child to ask questions about corona, so that they are not left to ponder on their own things that may seem frightening. you are likely worrying about outcomes your child has no thought of. try not to pass on your own fears to your child. if pre-school is closed and one parent has to stay home from work to care for the child, recognize that this may be viewed as a mainly positive outcome to the child.   with my three year old, i emphasize that all closures and restrictions  writing from sweden, we are not currently in full lockdown  are not - ultimately - to protect us from disease, but to protect our elderly from catching it from us. i find that framing to be appealing because it is both true, and i imagine it is less scary to a young child to hear how we all have to chip in and make sacrifices to protect another group, than to convey an image that it is actually unsafe for them to step outside.  why we should wash our hands and what is so good about vaccines are some things we talk about normally, and the current situation is a good opportunity to put that into context. you can say that it is to avoid this that we vaccinate against a lot of other things, and that scientists are working on a vaccine against this too. that perhaps once your kid will have children of their own, and they will receive a corona vaccine as well in the routine program, and your child will be able to tell their children how they remember what it was like before the vaccine. washing hands has been a constant battle. now we have introduced a longer routine, which involves singing a 20-second-long song, and compliance has  temporarily, i assume  increased.  consider whether you are changing your own behavior in a manner which may require explanation. for instance, if you are suddenly buying groceries in conspicuously larger quantities than normal, or even if they may have seen the images of empty shelves, you may want to point out that you and others are trying to reduce your number of trips to the grocery store, and hence the number of chances you may infect some at-risk person, lest they think that you are actually going to run out of food.  as an adult, it is easy to become consumed by this. we like to stay updated about what is going on in the world, and this is certainly a main event, and a rapidly evolving one. for my own sake, i could easily bingewatch news for the greater part of the day, and spend the remainder hypothesizing over different future scenarios. recognize that a young child is world is smaller than yours. talk about it as a thing that is happening right now, but make sure most of your interactions revolve around normal day to day activities. the above is addressing your question, how to talk about corona, but also make sure you do not talk exclusively about corona. "
"there are multiple challenges presented, and many of those are not limited to coronavirus vaccine.  as mentioned above, it just takes time. before a vaccine can be used in patients, clinical trials must be performed to validate the safety and efficiency of the vaccine candidate. a clinical trial includes three phases, which again, just takes time.  but to really answer your question, what are some challenges of developing a vaccine   to begin with, from the perspective of lab research, we first need to develop a vaccine candidate. what protein on the virus should we take as an antigen  there are many many proteins on the virus, and for cov, we know it is a protein called spike protein. it is the neutralizing target on the virus. which means, when an antibody bound to this site, it could prevent the virus from infecting the cells. okay, then we have to know, do we need to do something to this protein to make a vaccine  for example, when we try to manufacture this protein into a vaccine, what if the protein is degraded  or it somehow becomes a  bad  protein that simply cannot stimulate immune responses in human  these are just some examples of roadblocks of developing vaccine.  let is suppose we finally work those out. then what is next  each candidate vaccine needs to be tested in animals before going into human clinical trial. this step is time-consuming.  now we are finally ready to start clinical trials. according to fda, the vaccine for human trials  also for each drug  needs to be produced under good manufacturing practices  gmp . it is basically a standard operating procedure to make sure that the vaccine candidate can be manufactured in a large-scale, quality-controlled manner. there are many many challenges, like how to purify the protein  how to scale-up production. this is partly of the reason why the first vaccine in trial in usa is an mrna, and in china is a dna, both of which does not require complicated protein purification.  as you can see, the list of challenges can go on and on. but there are scientists and doctors working diligently on it. hopefully we will get there. "
"the c.d.c.    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks-coronavirus- cdc.html  recommends  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/health/masks- coronavirus-cdc.html  that all americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. this shift in federal guidance, announced by president trump at a white house briefing, reflects    http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html  new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms  http://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/31/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic- transmission.html . until now, the c.d.c., like the w.h.o., has advised that ordinary people do not need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. the new york times and other news outlets had been reporting the c.d.c. is previous guidance. masks do not replace hand washing and social distancing."
"it is possible, but unconfirmed, that the first incidents of sars-cov were directly infected by bats, and that palm civits were infected parallelly:    the new study demonstrates that chinese horseshoe bats harbor a pair of sars like viruses that are very closely related to the strain that caused the 2003-2004 pandemic and that these strains have the capacity to directly infect human cells and civet cat cells as well as bat cells. these findings suggest that bats may have directly infected humans and that civet cats may have been incidentally infected.    more evidence emerges that bats may have spread sars, jama  2013   "
"the coronavirus act 2020. specifically schedule 21 which relates to control of potentially infectious persons and schedule 22 which limits gatherings and other aspects.  the health protection  coronavirus, restrictions   england  regulations 2020. specifically regulation 6, which relates to restriction on movement. "
"you will probably not be able to take a tax deduction for this.   the irs requires that the space that you use for your home office is that the portion of your house is exclusively and regularly used for business purposes. it also must be the principle place of your business.  some employees can use the home-office deduction, but there are tests there too:   your business use must be for the convenience of your employer you cannot rent any portion of your home to your employer you have to meet the above  exclusivity/regularly  criteria   it is unlikely that you will be able to deduct a home office expense as a tax deduction for the 2020 tax year  2019 tax year has already passed  due to quarantine measures unless you continue to be quarantined for the remainder of the year  or a significant portion of it .  "
"just a quick update, my tour was cancelled so i rang my insurance company and they voided my insurance due to travelling to a country that was advised against all but essential travel, even the chinese part of the trip would not have been covered.  luckily swiss air offered a full refund, also my hotels in china were kind enough to issue refunds even though they were none refundable rooms, i am planning to go soon so will still use them to thank them. also the tour company to north korea offered a full refund.  not really an answer to my question, just if anyone else is travelling to china soon and you do not have insurance then try your luck contacting companies if you do not have insurance.   also if you are going to north korea just take out the insurance with the tour company for that leg of the trip, it is quite cheap and through a chinese insurance company which cover north korea.  "
"viruses can survive a few days in water, i.e. sars can survive 22 days in lab grade reagent water and 7 days in pasteurized sewage. that is the time the virus takes to be at 99  of it is original concentration.  from  survival of surrogate coronavirus in water  .  viruses can also spread via swimming pools, i.e. hepatitus a and norovirus have been associated with swimming pools.  from  a review of waterborne viral deseases associated with swimming pools  .  boiling water will kill viruses. children have very little reaction to the virus when they carry it, so it is likely that they act as a transmitter more than water does. i am not worried about it at all by the way, just do what the doctors advise.  "
"there are few different things to consider:   deductible : since you have an hsa you are probably on a high deductible insurance plan. take a look at your hsa balance and divide by your max out of pocket deductible. that is the number of years you are covered for the  worst case  scenario. i would say you want at least ten, but 100 years would be excessive. depends of course on you own risk comfort. retirement : health care cost will likely be the single largest expense in retirement and unfortunately it is the hardest to predict and find good data on. a recent fidelity study put the average life time out-of-pocket cost for a couple into the  300.000 range. other studies quote about  5000- 7000 in today is dollar per year per person on medicare. health care inflation is currently significantly higher than regular inflation, which complicates the math further. still, it is not unreasonable to have several hundred thousand dollars squirreled away for retirement health care coronavirus and shifts in the health care system: this is pure speculation at this point, but chances are that the current crisis will have an impact on the way health care works and gets paid for in the future. the most drastic change would be a single payer system  as many other countries in the civilized world already have  but it is very hard to predict how an hsa would roll over into this. one of the more plausible scenarios would be to allow a roll over into an ira but that is all a wild guess at the moment.  in any case the current system is stretched thin already. the average retiree spends more than 40  of their social security income on health care and it is getting worse quickly. investment: hsa contributions are pre-tax money. in most cases that alone will outweigh any potential investment return. assuming there is no high interest debt, i would recommend to first max out pre-tax retirement contributions, then pre-tax college savings and then pre-tax hsa. if you have other highly attractive investment vehicle you can consider those too. stocks are cheap at the moment, although very risky and likely to be volatile for a while.   looking at the actual medical risk is probably not that helpful. statistics do not really help if it is just you and your family. would you be doing anything differently if you knew the risk for a major health disaster is 0.1  instead of 0.2     "
"the first human cases of covid-19 were identified in wuhan city, china in december 2019. at this stage, it is not possible to determine precisely how humans in china were initially infected with sars-cov-2.however, sars-cov, the virus which caused the sars outbreak in 2003, jumped from an animal reservoir  civet cats, a farmed wild animal  to humans and then spread between humans. in a similar way, it is thought that sars-cov-2 jumped the species barrier and initially infected humans, but more likely through an intermediate host, that is another animal species more likely to be handled by humans - this could be a domestic animal, a wild animal, or a domesticated wild animal and, as of yet, has not been identified.until the source of this virus is identified and controlled, there is a risk of reintroduction of the virus in the human population and the risk of new outbreaks like the ones we are currently experiencing."
"what do the contracts with your suppliers and the policy with your insurer say   changes in government regulation do not ipso facto relieve parties of the obligations under a contract under common  english  law. contracts are allowed to allocate the risk of force majeure  and indeed, to define it because it has no common law meaning  but if they do not, then each party bears their own risk and if they fail to honour their obligations they are in breach of contract.   common law does have the doctrine of frustration, however, that is much narrower and must result in the inability of the contract to be completed at all.  and then there are consumer rights which may apply.  when the dust settles, we are likely to see a lot of litigation around force majeure.  your venue appears to be complying with both the law and their obligations under the contract so you have no breach of contract claim against them and no trigger for the insurance policy. if you choose to cancel, then you broke the contract.  importantly, the position is reversed in civil law jurisdictions - a party unable to fulfil their obligations under a contract is not in breach. "
"people over 65 are at higher risk of more severe symptoms, as are those with pre-existing conditions like heart disease or asthma.  unlike during the influenza outbreak in 2009, pregnant women do not seem to be at greater risk of contracting coronavirus."
"disclaimer: i am no expert, this answer is based on my modest understanding of the situation at play.  the opec decision to cut oil production was meant to keep prices high: if every opec country were selling all the oil they could, it would drive prices down since there would be more supply than demand. so if every opec country agrees to sell only a limited amount of oil, the global supply matches the global demand and prices stay high. naturally this works only if all the big oil producing countries play the game: it is tempting for a country to sell more than its agreed quota, especially if the price is high.  russia is not an official member of opec, only an observer. as such, it is free to follow opec policies or not, depending on its own interests and strategy. i am not aware of any official reason why russia refused to follow this particular recent decision, but it looks like a rational economic decision: if many oil producers  competitors  reduce their supply and the prices are high, why would russia limit their own supply if they have no obligation to     this refusal is cited as the cause of the 10  oil price crash on friday alone, which was exacerbated by a further 30  crash on monday.   this is not the full explanation: the russian refusal led saudi arabia to cancel the original plan to reduce production  guardian , and instead to flood the market with their own oil. this is what drove prices down sharply, especially in the current context of low demand due to the corona virus.  the saudi surprise strategy could arguably be interpreted as a kind of tactical response against russia is refusal to play according to opec rules: since russia apparently wants to reap the benefits of high prices without sacrificing their own production, saudi arabia is telling them that  two can play this game . the effect is that all the oil producing countries are going to suffer from low prices, but some more than others:    the new strategy adopted by riyadh appears to target russia and us shale oil firms, many of which are known to have high production costs and lose money when crude prices fall below  50 a barrel for more than a few months.   saudi arabia can produce oil at a lower cost than russia and us shale oil industry, so they are probably trying to use the opportunity of the russian refusal to get rid of some competitors: saudi arabia can afford to take a temporary economic hit, whereas many shale oil companies may go bankrupt quickly. strategically, their initiative is certainly also meant to assert their dominance on the oil market.     added: a similar analysis by kevin drum, found just after posting my answer     the nickel version of this story is that oil prices started declining in february due to fears of lower demand caused by the coronavirus outbreak. opec tried to cut a deal with russia to reduce output all around, but russia balked. saudi arabia then decided to bring out its big guns, lowering prices immediately by about  7 per barrel and announcing that it would increase output in order to take share away from russia. at that point the decline turned into a rout, with the price of wti crude collapsing to  28 as i write this.  "
"this question is likely to get closed as opinion-based, but a few reference points:   unless things get positively apocalyptic, it is exceedingly unlikely that japan is airports would shut down completely. flights might be reduced, but as a comparison point, airports in china -- even in wuhan -- have kept operating throughout the crisis there. on the inbound flight, this would require an infected person coming from munich or london, which is statistically improbable. on the way back, this is a higher possibility, but still unlikely unless  again  there is a major outbreak.   fwiw, i was in tokyo last week, and while it is not exactly panic in the air, people are definitely taking precautions: temperature scans at the airport, more masks than usual, hand washing  amp  sanitizers, large gatherings cancelled, etc . this in itself seems likely to limit the spread of the virus, making full-blown contagion less likely. but at the end of the day it is your call. "
"the virus that causes covid-19 is thought to spread mainly from person to person, mainly through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. these droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. spread is more likely when people are in close contact with one another  within about 6 feet . covid-19 seems to be spreading easily and sustainably in the community   community spread   in many affected geographic areas. community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected. learn what is known about the spread of newly emerged coronaviruses."
" it may be possible that a person can get covid-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads,  the cdc says.   more often than not, people get coronavirus through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.   these droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs,  the cdc says."
"  the preponderance of links between bat and human pathogens has led to a debate about whether bats disproportionately contribute to emerging viral infections crossing the species barrier into humans  26-30 . given the diversity of the chiroptera order  figure  figure1 ,1 , we may simply see more bat viruses because there are so many   1,300  species of bats  31 . however, even when accounting for the fact that they make up  20  of extant terrestrial mammals, bats are overrepresented as reservoir hosts of pathogens with a high potential for spilling into human populations  32, 33 . in fact, no known predictors that have been described to impact the likelihood of crossing the species barrier, including reservoir host ecology, phylogenetic relatedness to humans or frequency of reservoir-human contact, explain this pattern  32 . thus, why bats are such a frequent source of pathogenic human viruses remains a tantalizing mystery.   --going to bat s  for studies of disease tolerance  other references that debate whether bats are special, generally conclude that they might somehow be, and argue about causes, include   brook ce, dobson ap. bats as ispecial  reservoirs for emerging zoonotic pathogens. trends microbiol.  2015  23:172-80. this may be the best of the group, going into more detail and including more recent data dobson ap. virology. what links bats to emerging infectious diseases  science  2005  310:628-9.  wang lf, walker pj, poon ll. mass extinctions, biodiversity and mitochondrial function: are bats ispecial  as reservoirs for emerging viruses  curr opin virol.  2011  1:649-57.  olival k, epstein jh, wang lf, field he, daszak p. are bats exceptional viral reservoirs  in: aguirre aa, ostfeld r, daszak p, editors. editors. new directions in conservation medicine. oxford, uk: oxford university press   2012 . p. 195-212.  luis ad, hayman dt, o ishea tj, cryan pm, gilbert at, pulliam jr, et al. . a comparison of bats and rodents as reservoirs of zoonotic viruses: are bats special  proc biol sci.  2013  280:20122753.   "
"official infection and death numbers tend to rely on reports accumulated through several layers of bureaucracy, often with daily reports at several levels. a hospital reports the numbers to the city administration, they are added up and sent to the province, and those are added up and sent to the national level. so the actual reporting period is not the day when the statistic was published, it is when the base data was collected. that tends to be in the fine print, what news and spokespeople care about is the relative change from the previous reporting period.  you can find the tracker from johns hopkins which tends to exceed official national figures because they take local statements and add them up in realtime, rather than waiting for the official reports to arrive. as of this writing, the cdc says there are 15k cases in the us whike johns hopkins says 35k cases  a closer look at the cdc site shows that they did not update over the weekend ... "
"in some cases, the virus ultimately damages tiny air sacs in the lungs,restricting oxygen to the bloodstream and depriving other major organs -including the liver, kidney and brain - of oxygen.   severe cases of coronavirus:   some result in brain damage, inability towalk  http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/19/coronavirus-what-acute-respiratory-distress-syndrome-ards/5066412002/ in a small number of severe cases, that can develop into  acute respiratorydistress syndrome ards   http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2020/03/19/coronavirus-what-acute-respiratory-distress-syndrome-ards/5066412002/ , which requires apatient be placed on a ventilator to supply oxygen. however, if too much ofthe lung is damaged and not enough oxygen is supplied to the rest of the body,respiratory failure could lead to organ failure and death.here is  what that looks like inside the body  http://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/2020/03/13/what-coronavirus-does-body-covid-19-infection-process-symptoms/5009057002/ ."
"by lowering interest rates the fed is main goal is to prop up the stock market, and support us corporations.  this is achieved through the following effects: - it encourages credit creation through bank lending, and because most money originates in credit it makes money cheaper and more widely available - it lowers the rates of return on savings and thus encourages savers to spend more freely, which has a twofold effect: it stimulates the economy into the creation of yet more loans, and it tells savers to go elsewhere with their money  the resulting availability of money/credit and lowered bank savings rates makes the stock market an attractive destination.  since 2007, the financial crisis, the fed is essentially a hostage of the stock market in that if now must keep loose monetary policy to further the illusion of perpetual long term stock market gains. this is further evidenced by the tentative and then aborted qt  quantitive tightening  attempt last year.   in the current climate of coronavirus economic meltdown, the lowered interest rate has a further goal: to help protect us corporations who are now overstretched on corporate bonds.  since 2007, unbeknownst to many, and i think illegal outside the us     , corporations - rather than restructure in the wake of the crisis - regularly take advantage of the cheap money stimulus by issuing corporate bonds  essentially borrowing money at low rates  so that their execs can use this to direct the company to purchase its own stock on the stock market. this creates the illusion of rising corporate value while allowing shareholders to receive big dividends and ceos to pay themselves income related bonuses.  this irresponsible corporate behaviour has brought us corporations to the point that the coronavirus meltdown has slowed earnings below what they need to pay on the corporate bonds. without direct government support many us corporations will go bust, and corporate bond prices will plummet, which will trigger further meltdown in financial institutions that invest in those assets.  again, silently under the media radar, just this week the us     and ecb created new funds that will be directed to supply money to those institutions buying corporate bonds. to be clear, the way that works is that bondholders who are now nervous about the corporation defaulting might not roll over their bond....rather than reacquiring bonds at the end of their term, or even ending prematurely, they will demand their money from the corps. the corps. do not have it, but new bonds will be sold to the govt backed funds.  once again the taxpayer bails out the fatcat   so in summary, the reduced interest rate in combo with new funds, is designed to prop up the stock market and corporations to prevent socioeconomic collapse.  around the world, central banks lower the rate for the effects of stimulus and stock market prop-up described above. ecb does not lower because the negative interest rate actually makes loans more expensive in some cases as being paid to borrow makes it easier than to lend. "
"the british retail consortium says retailers and their suppliers are continuing to work to the highest standards of hygiene when handling products, and are observing safety processes set by the food standards agency and public health england.  however, it makes sense to wash unpackaged items such as fruit and vegetables thoroughly under running water, before leaving them to dry. you should also then wash your hands with soap and water."
"president trump was able to do that with ventilators because of the defense production act:    on march 18, 2020, in response to the covid-19 outbreak, president trump issued an executive order that defined ventilators and protective equipment as  essential to the national defense , the standard required by the dpa. 17  18  later that day, he indicated that he would not make immediate use of dpa authority, writing,  hopefully there will be no need   he indicated that he would do so in a  worst-case scenario . 19  20  speaker of the house nancy pelosi called upon trump to  immediately use the powers of the dpa to mass produce and coordinate distribution of  critically needed hospital equipment such as ventilators, swabs, and personal protective equipment. 19  20  on march 20, trump said that he will use the dpa. 21  general motors  gm  ceo mary barra spoke to trump administration officials about how gm could support production of ventilators. 22  on march 23, trump issued an executive order classifying  health and medical resources necessary to respond to the spread of covid-19  as subject to the authority granted by dpa to prohibit hoarding and price gouging. 23  24  trump is continued reluctance to use the act is authorities prompted further criticism. 25  on march 27, 2020, after negotiations with gm to produce ventilators had broken down over cost, which was being estimated at over  1 billion, but primarily due to gm is uncertainty as to its ability to provide the number of ventilators required speedily, trump ordered hhs secretary alex azar to use the authority available under the dpa to require gm to accept and prioritize contracts for the number of ventilators that azar determines to be appropriate. 26  trump also named peter navarro national policy coordinator for the dpa. 27    for trump to do this for toilet paper, he would need to declare it vital to national defense. that seems kind of silly to me, but i recon he could do that. it has been done for  aerospace structures :    in june 13, 2017, president donald trump invoked the law to classify as  critical to national defense  two sets of products. the first referenced  items affecting aerospace structures and fibers, radiation-hardened microelectronics, radiation test and qualification facilities, and satellite components and assemblies . 13  14   "
